---
title: "Centennial Flame Research Award Act"
long_title: "An Act respecting the establishment of the Centennial Flame Research Award to publicize the contributions to Canadian public life of persons with disabilities"
chapter: "C-27.5"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Centennial Flame Research Award Act

> An Act respecting the establishment of the Centennial Flame Research Award to publicize the contributions to Canadian public life of persons with disabilities


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Centennial Flame Research Award Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

In this Act,

**award** means the award established by section 3; (**bourse**)

**Committee** means those committees of the Senate and the House of Commons established to deal with matters relating to the status of disabled persons, acting as administrators of the fund established under section 3; (**comité**)

**disabled persons** means persons who consider themselves disadvantaged by reason of any persistent physical, mental, psychiatric, learning or sensory impairment or who believe that a potential employer would likely consider them so disadvantaged; (**personne handicapée**)

**fiscal year** means the period beginning on April 1 in one year and ending on March 31 in the next year. (**exercice**)

### 3 Fund established

(1) There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Centennial Flame Research Award Fund into which shall be paid, in each fiscal year,

- (a) all money collected from the Centennial Flame monument on Parliament Hill in Ottawa; and

- (b) any money otherwise received as a donation to the Centennial Flame Research Award Fund.

**Payments out of fund**

(2) Following an approved application for an award under this Act in the second or any subsequent fiscal year of the fund, there shall be paid from the fund an award for the purpose set out in section 4.

### 4 Purpose of award

The purpose of the Centennial Flame Research Award Fund is to provide awards of money to enable disabled persons to conduct research and prepare reports on the contributions of one or more disabled persons to the public life of Canada or the activities of Parliament.

### 5 Eligibility of candidates

(1) Any Canadian citizen who is a disabled person is eligible to receive the award and may apply to the Committee to that effect.

**Annual**

(2) The award shall be granted annually.

**Selection**

(3) The Committee shall receive the applications for the award and select one recipient who qualifies under subsection (1) and meets such other criteria as the Committee considers appropriate and the Speakers of the Senate and the House of Commons approve.

### 6 Administration

(1) The Board of Internal Economy of the House of Commons shall supervise the collection of money for the Centennial Flame Research Award Fund and, subject to this Act and to such regulations as the Board may make in that behalf, may take any measures necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

**Award renewable**

(2) The award is renewable if the Speaker of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Commons approve a recommendation of the Committee to that effect.

### 7 Annual report

(1) As soon as possible after the end of each fiscal year, the chairman of the Committee shall cause an annual report on the administration of this Act to be laid before both Houses of Parliament.

**Report of recipient**

(2) The annual report shall include the report prepared by the award recipient in accordance with subsection (3).

**Contents of the report of the recipient**

(3) The award recipient shall prepare a report describing the result of the research conducted by the recipient and presented in whatever medium or format that the recipient considers appropriate.

**Presence of recipient**

(4) The report of the award recipient shall be laid before the Committee and the Committee may call the recipient as a witness for the occasion.
