---
title: "Disability Tax Credit Promoters Restrictions Act"
long_title: "An Act restricting the fees charged by promoters of the disability tax credit and making consequential amendments to the Tax Court of Canada Act"
chapter: "D-2.8"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Disability Tax Credit Promoters Restrictions Act

> An Act restricting the fees charged by promoters of the disability tax credit and making consequential amendments to the Tax Court of Canada Act


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Disability Tax Credit Promoters Restrictions Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

The following definitions apply in this Act.

**claimant** means an individual who is the subject of a disability tax credit request or who has a dependant on behalf of whom a disability tax credit request is made. (**demandeur**)

**disability tax credit request** means a request, made in respect of a claimant,
  - (a) for determination of disability tax credit eligibility under subsection 152(1.01) of the *Income Tax Act*;
  - (b) in respect of a deduction under subsection 118.3(1) or (2) of the *Income Tax Act*; or
  - (c) in respect of any deduction or overpayment of tax under the *Income Tax Act* that is contingent upon the eligibility for a deduction under subsection 118.3(1) or (2) of that Act. (**demande de crédit d’impôt pour personnes handicapées**)

**fee** means the fair market value of any consideration accepted or charged by a person, directly or indirectly, to prepare a disability tax credit request. (**frais**)

**maximum fee** means the maximum fee set by regulations made under section 9. (**frais maximaux**)

**Minister** means the Minister of National Revenue. (**ministre**)

**person** has the same meaning as in subsection 248(1) of the *Income Tax Act*. (**personne**)

**prescribed** means prescribed by regulation. (Version anglaise seulement)

**promoter** means a person who, directly or indirectly, accepts or charges a fee in respect of a disability tax credit request. (**promoteur**)

## Promoter’s Fee

### 3 Prohibition

(1) It is prohibited for a promoter to accept or charge a fee that exceeds the maximum fee.

**Penalty for fee exceeding maximum fee**

(2) Every promoter who contravenes subsection (1) is liable to a penalty in respect of the fee equal to the total of $1,000 and the amount determined by the formula

```
A – (B + C)
where
```


### 4 Reporting requirement  — promoter

Every promoter, other than a prescribed exempt promoter, must notify the Minister, in a form and manner authorized by the Minister, of the fee accepted or charged by the promoter in respect of a disability tax credit request if it exceeds the maximum fee.

### 5 Deceptive information

It is prohibited for a promoter to make, participate in, assent to or acquiesce in the making of any false or deceptive entries in a notification required under section 4.

## Offences

### 6 Offences

Every promoter who fails to notify the Minister under section 4 or who contravenes section 5 is guilty of an offence and, in addition to any penalty otherwise provided, is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not less than $1,000 and not more than $25,000.

### 7 Offences

Every promoter who contravenes section 3 is guilty of an offence and, in addition to any penalty otherwise provided, is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not less than 100% and not more than 200% of the total of all amounts by which the fee exceeds the maximum fee amount in respect of a disability tax credit request.

## Disclosure of Information

### 8 Information may be disclosed

Section 241 of the *Income Tax Act* does not apply to information or documents that can reasonably be regarded as necessary for the administration or enforcement of this Act and an official or authorized person, as defined for the purposes of that section, may make that information or a copy of any such documents available to any person for a purpose related to the administration or enforcement of this Act.

## Regulations

### 9 Regulations

The Governor in Council may make regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act including, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, regulations

- (a) setting the maximum fee;

- (b) exempting certain promoters from the notifying requirements set out in section 4; and

- (c) prescribing anything that by this Act is to be prescribed.

## Application of Income Tax Act

### 10 Provisions applicable

Sections 152, 158 and 159, subsections 161(1) and (11), sections 162 to 167 and 257, Division J of Part I and Part XV of the *Income Tax Act* are applicable with respect to the circumstances related to a disability tax credit request, with such modifications as the circumstances require.

## Consequential Amendments

### Tax Court of Canada Act

### 11

[Amendment]

## Coming into Force

### [^]12 Order in council

This Act comes into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.
