---
title: "Federal Framework on Lyme Disease Act"
long_title: "An Act respecting a Federal Framework on Lyme Disease"
chapter: "F-7.35"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Federal Framework on Lyme Disease Act

> An Act respecting a Federal Framework on Lyme Disease


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Federal Framework on Lyme Disease Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

The following definitions apply in this Act.

**Agency** means the Public Health Agency of Canada. (**Agence**)

**federal framework** means a framework to address the challenges of the recognition and timely diagnosis and treatment of Lyme disease. (**cadre fédéral**)

**Minister** means the Minister of Health. (**ministre**)

**provincial and territorial ministers** means the provincial and territorial ministers responsible for health. (**ministres provinciaux et territoriaux**)

## Federal Framework on Lyme Disease

### 3 Conference

The Minister must, no later than 12 months after the day on which this Act comes into force, convene a conference with the provincial and territorial ministers and stakeholders, including representatives of the medical community and patients’ groups, for the purpose of developing a comprehensive federal framework that includes

- (a) the establishment of a national medical surveillance program to use data collected by the Agency to properly track incidence rates and the associated economic costs of Lyme disease;

- (b) the establishment of guidelines regarding the prevention, identification, treatment and management of Lyme disease, and the sharing of best practices throughout Canada; and

- (c) the creation and distribution of standardized educational materials related to Lyme disease, for use by any public health care provider within Canada, designed to increase national awareness about the disease and enhance its prevention, identification, treatment and management.

### 4 Preparation and publication of report

The Minister must prepare a report that sets out the federal framework and publish the report on the Agency’s website within one year after the federal framework referred to in section 3 is developed.

### 5 Report to Parliament

The Minister must cause a copy of the report referred to in section 4 to be laid before each House of Parliament on any of the first 90 days on which that House is sitting after the report has been published on the Agency’s website.

## Review and Report

### 6 Review

The Agency must

- (a) complete a review of the effectiveness of the federal framework no later than five years after the day on which the report referred to in section 4 is published on the Agency’s website; and

- (b) table a report on its findings before each House of Parliament within the next ten sitting days after the review is completed.
