---
title: "Federal Law—Civil Law Harmonization Act, No. 1"
long_title: "A First Act to harmonize federal law with the civil law of the Province of Quebec and to amend certain Acts in order to ensure that each language version takes into account the common law and the civil law"
chapter: "F-7.5"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Federal Law—Civil Law Harmonization Act, No. 1

> A First Act to harmonize federal law with the civil law of the Province of Quebec and to amend certain Acts in order to ensure that each language version takes into account the common law and the civil law


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Federal Law—Civil Law Harmonization Act, No. 1*.

## Federal Law and Civil Law of the Province of Quebec

### Title

### 2 Title

This Part may be cited as the *Federal Law and Civil Law of the Province of Quebec Act*.

### Civil Code of Lower Canada

### 3 Provisions repealed

(1) The provisions of the *Civil Code of Lower Canada*, adopted by chapter 41 of the Acts of 1865 of the legislature of the Province of Canada, entitled *An Act respecting the Civil Code of Lower Canada*, are repealed in so far as they relate to subjects that fall within the legislative competence of Parliament and have not been expressly repealed.

***Interpretation Act***

(2) The *Interpretation Act* applies to the repeal referred to in subsection (1).

### Marriage

### 4 Substitution

Sections 5 to 7, which apply solely in the Province of Quebec, are to be interpreted as though they formed part of the *Civil Code of Québec*.

### 5 Consent required

Marriage requires the free and enlightened consent of two persons to be the spouse of each other.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 2001, c. 4, s. 5; 2005, c. 33, s. 9

</details>

### 6 Minimum age

No person who is under the age of sixteen years may contract marriage.

### 7 Monogamy

No person may contract a new marriage until every previous marriage has been dissolved by death or by divorce or declared null.

## Amendments to the Interpretation Act

### 8

[Amendment]

## Amendments to the Federal Real Property Act

### 9 to 24

[Amendments]

## Amendments to the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act

### 25 to 33

[Amendments]

## Amendments to the Crown Liability and Proceedings Act

### 34 to 52

[Amendments]

## Miscellaneous Amendments to Other Acts

### 53 to 128

[Amendments]

## Consequential Amendments

### 129 to 173

[Amendments]

## Coordinating Amendments

### 174

[Repealed, 2012, c. 31, s. 403]

### 175 and 176

[Amendments]

## Transitional Provision and Coming into Force

### Transitional Provision

### 177 *Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act* — **secured creditor**

(1) The definition **secured creditor** in subsection 2(1) of the *Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act*, as enacted by section 25 of this Act, applies only to bankruptcies or proposals in respect of which proceedings are commenced after the coming into force of that section, but nothing in this subsection shall be construed as changing the status of any person who was a secured creditor in respect of a bankruptcy or a proposal in respect of which proceedings were commenced before the coming into force of that section.

***Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act* — par. 136(1)(e)**

(2) Paragraph 136(1)(e) of the *Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act*, as enacted by section 31 of this Act, applies only to bankruptcies or proposals in respect of which proceedings are commenced after the coming into force of that section, but nothing in this subsection shall be construed as changing the status of any person who was a secured creditor in respect of a bankruptcy or a proposal in respect of which proceedings were commenced before the coming into force of that section.

***Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act* — par. 178(1)(d)**

(3) Paragraph 178(1)(d) of the *Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act*, as enacted by section 32 of this Act, applies only to bankruptcies in respect of which proceedings are commenced after the coming into force of that section.

### Coming into Force

### [^]178 Coming into force

The provisions of this Act, other than Part 8, come into force on a day or days to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.
