---
title: "International Sale of Goods Contracts Convention Act"
long_title: "An Act to implement the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods"
chapter: "I-20.4"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# International Sale of Goods Contracts Convention Act

> An Act to implement the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *International Sale of Goods Contracts Convention Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

In this Act,

**agent corporation** has the same meaning as in Part X of the *Financial Administration Act*; (**société mandataire**)

**Convention** means the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, as set out in the schedule; (**Convention**)

**departmental corporation** has the same meaning as in the *Financial Administration Act*. (**établissement public**)

## Her Majesty

### 3 Binding on Her Majesty

This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada.

## Application

### 4 Convention has force of law

Subject to section 5, the Convention is declared to have the force of law in Canada during such period as, by its terms, the Convention is in force in respect of Canada.

### 5 Application

(1) The Convention applies in respect of contracts that are subject to the Convention and that are entered into by Her Majesty in right of Canada or on behalf of Her Majesty in right of Canada by any departmental corporation or agent corporation.

**Exclusion of Convention**

(2) Parties to a contract to which the Convention would otherwise apply pursuant to subsection (1) may exclude its application in accordance with the terms of the Convention and, in particular, by providing in the contract that other law applies in respect of the contract.

## Inconsistent Laws

### 6 Inconsistent laws

In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Act or the Convention and the provisions of any other law, the provisions of this Act or the Convention prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.

## Courts

### 7 Jurisdiction

The Federal Court and the superior courts of the provinces are courts of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of the enforcement of this Act and the Convention.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 1991, c. 13, s. 7; 2002, c. 8, s. 150

</details>

## Publication

### 8 Publication of notice

The Minister of Justice shall cause a notice of the day on which the Convention comes into force in respect of Canada and of the day on which it ceases to be in force to be published in the *Canada Gazette* within sixty days after it comes into force or ceases to be in force, and a notice so published shall be judicially noticed.

## Regulations

### 9 Regulations

The Minister of Justice may make such regulations as are necessary for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to any of the provisions of this Act or the Convention.

## Coming into Force

### [^]10 Coming into force

This Act shall come into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.


## SCHEDULE  United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods

(Section 2)
