---
title: "Manitoba Supplementary Provisions Act"
long_title: "An Act respecting the Province of Manitoba"
chapter: "M-0.54"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Manitoba Supplementary Provisions Act

> An Act respecting the Province of Manitoba


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Manitoba Supplementary Provisions Act*.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S., c. 99, s. 1

</details>

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,

- (a) **Commissioners** includes the commissioner in cases in which the commission is issued to one person only;

- (b) **Minister** means the Minister of the Interior;

- (c) **Province** means the province of Manitoba.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S., c. 99. s. 2

</details>

## General

### 3 Allotment of 150,000 acres for a university

An allotment of land, not exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand acres, of fair average quality, shall be selected by the Dominion Government and granted as an endowment to the University of Manitoba for its maintenance as a university capable of giving proper training in the higher branches of education, and to be held in trust for that purpose upon some basis or scheme to be framed by the University and approved by the Dominion Government.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S., c. 99, s. 4

</details>

### 4 Laws in force in Manitoba

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the laws of England relating to matters within the jurisdiction of the Parliament of Canada, as the same existed on the fifteenth day of July, one thousand eight hundred and seventy, were from the said day and are in force in the Province, in so far as applicable to the Province, and in so far as the said laws have not been or are not hereafter repealed, altered, varied, modified or affected by any Act of the Parliament of Great Britain applicable to the Province, or of the Parliament of Canada.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S., c. 99, s. 6

</details>

## [Repealed, 1992, c. 1, s. 146 (Sch. IX, item 35)]

### 5 to 18

[Repealed, 1992, c. 1, s. 146 (Sch. IX, item 35)]

## [Repealed, 1992, c. 1, s. 146 (Sch. IX, item 35)]

### 19 to 34

[Repealed, 1992, c. 1, s. 146 (Sch. IX, item 35)]
