---
title: "Red Tape Reduction Act"
long_title: "An Act to control the administrative burden that regulations impose on businesses"
chapter: "R-4.5"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Red Tape Reduction Act

> An Act to control the administrative burden that regulations impose on businesses


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Red Tape Reduction Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

The following definitions apply in this Act.

**administrative burden** means anything that is necessary to demonstrate compliance with a regulation, including the collecting, processing, reporting and retaining of information and the completing of forms. (**fardeau administratif**)

**business** means a person or entity that engages in commercial activities in Canada, other than for a public purpose.  (**entreprise**)

**regulation** means an instrument that is registered as a regulation under section 6 of the *Statutory Instruments Act*. (**règlement**)

## Application

### 3 Application

This Act applies to regulations made by or with the approval of the Governor in Council, the Treasury Board or a minister of the Crown.

## Purpose

### 4 Purpose

The purpose of this Act is to control the administrative burden that regulations impose on businesses.

## Rule

### 5 Control of administrative burden

(1) If a regulation is made that imposes a new administrative burden on a business, one or more regulations must be amended or repealed to offset the cost of that new burden against the cost of an existing administrative burden on a business.

**Repeal of regulation**

(2) If a regulation is made  —  other than one that only amends a regulation  —  that imposes a new administrative burden on a business, a regulation must be repealed, unless one has already been repealed in accordance with subsection (1).

### 6 Policies and directives

The President of the Treasury Board may establish policies or issue directives respecting the manner in which section 5 is to be applied.

### 7 Regulations

The Governor in Council may, for the purpose of section 5, make regulations respecting

- (a) the manner of calculating the cost of an administrative burden;

- (b) the period within which measures must be taken to comply with that section;

- (c) the taking into account of regulations that are amended or repealed before a new administrative burden is imposed;

- (d) the application of that section to any regulation made, amended or repealed on or after April 1, 2012; and

- (e) the regulations that the Treasury Board may exempt from the application of that section and the categories for which, and the circumstances in which, such an exemption may be granted.

## General

### 8 Immunity

(1) No action or other proceeding may be brought against Her Majesty in right of Canada for anything done or omitted to be done, or for anything purported to be done or omitted to be done, under this Act.

**Validity of regulations**

(2) No regulation is invalid by reason only of a failure to comply with this Act.

## Annual Report

### 9 Report  — application of section 5

The President of the Treasury Board must prepare and make public each year a report on the application of section 5 during the 12-month period ending on March 31 of the year in which the report is to be made public.

### 10 Regulations

The Governor in Council may make regulations respecting the information to be included in the report and respecting the report’s form.

## Review of Act

### 11 Five-year review

Five years after the day on which this Act comes into force, the President of the Treasury Board must cause a review of this Act to be conducted.


## AMENDMENTS NOT IN FORCE

### — 2018, c. 12, s. 257

### 257

(1) The first paragraph of the French version of the preamble to the *Red Tape Reduction Act* is replaced by the following:

(2) The second paragraph of the preamble to the Act is replaced by the following:

### — 2018, c. 12, s. 258

### 258

(1) The definition **administrative burden** in section 2 of the Act is replaced by the following:

(2) Section 2 of the Act is amended by adding the following in alphabetical order:

### — 2018, c. 12, s. 259

### 259

Section 4 of the French version of the Act is replaced by the following:

### — 2018, c. 12, s. 260

### 260

Subsection 5(1) of the English version of the Act is replaced by the following:

### — 2018, c. 12, s. 261

### 261

The Act is amended by adding the following after section 5:

### — 2018, c. 12, s. 262

### 262

Sections 6 and 7 of the Act are replaced by the following:

### — 2018, c. 12, s. 263

### 263

Section 9 of the Act is replaced by the following:
