---
title: "Sahtu Dene and Metis Land Claim Settlement Act"
long_title: "An Act to approve, give effect to and declare valid an agreement between Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada and the Dene of Colville Lake, Déline, Fort Good Hope and Fort Norman and the Metis of Fort Good Hope, Fort Norman and Norman Wells, as represented by the Sahtu Tribal Council, and to make related amendments to another Act"
chapter: "S-1.5"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Sahtu Dene and Metis Land Claim Settlement Act

> An Act to approve, give effect to and declare valid an agreement between Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada and the Dene of Colville Lake, Déline, Fort Good Hope and Fort Norman and the Metis of Fort Good Hope, Fort Norman and Norman Wells, as represented by the Sahtu Tribal Council, and to make related amendments to another Act


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Sahtu Dene and Metis Land Claim Settlement Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definition of "Agreement"

In this Act, **Agreement** means the Comprehensive Land Claim Agreement between Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada and the Sahtu Dene and Metis, as represented by the Sahtu Tribal Council, signed on September 6, 1993 and tabled in the House of Commons by the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development on March 8, 1994, including any amendments made to it from time to time.

## Her Majesty

### 3 Binding on Her Majesty

This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.

## Agreement

### 4 Agreement given effect

(1) The Agreement is hereby approved, given effect and declared valid.

**Rights and obligations**

(2) For greater certainty, any person or body may exercise the powers, rights, privileges and benefits conferred on the person or body by the Agreement and shall perform the duties and is subject to the liabilities imposed on the person or body by the Agreement.

**Title to lands**

(3) For greater certainty, title to lands vests in one or more designated Sahtu organizations as provided in the Agreement.

### 5 Renewable Resources Board

For the purposes of carrying out its objectives, the Renewable Resources Board established by the Agreement has the capacity, rights, powers and privileges of a natural person.

### 6 Orders and regulations

The Governor in Council may make such orders and regulations as are necessary for the purpose of carrying out the Agreement.

### 7 Publication of Agreement and amendments

The Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development shall cause a certified copy of the Agreement and of any amendments made to it to be deposited in

- (a) the library of the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development that is situated in the National Capital Region;

- (b) the regional office of the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development situated in the Northwest Territories;

- (c) the legislative library of the Government of the Northwest Territories; and

- (d) such other places as the Minister considers necessary.

## Other Laws

### 8 Inconsistency or conflict

Where there is an inconsistency or conflict between this Act or the Agreement and the provisions of any law, this Act or the Agreement, as the case may be, prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.

### 9

[Repealed, 2009, c. 23, s. 337]

## Appropriation

### 10 Payments out of C.R.F.

There shall be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund such sums as are required to meet the monetary obligations of Canada under chapters 8 and 10 of the Agreement.

## Related Amendments

### 11 and 12

[Amendments]

## Coming into Force

### 13 Coming into force

(1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act comes into force on the later of April 1, 1994 and the day on which it is assented to.

**Idem**

(2) Sections 11 and 12 are deemed to have come into force on December 22, 1992.


## RELATED PROVISIONS

### — 2019, c. 29, par. 371(2)(c)


**Other references to Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development**

(2) Unless the context requires otherwise, every reference to the “Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development” is, with any grammatical adaptations, to be read as a reference to the “Department of Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs” in the following provisions:

- (c) paragraph 7(a) of the *Sahtu Dene and Metis Land Claim Settlement Act*;

### — 2019, c. 29, par. 373(2)(c)


**Other references to Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development**

(2) Unless the context requires otherwise, every reference to the “Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development” is, with any grammatical adaptations, to be read as a reference to the “Minister of Crown-Indigenous Relations” in the following provisions:

- (c) the portion of section 7 of the *Sahtu Dene and Metis Land Claim Settlement Act* before paragraph (a);
