---
title: "Self-Government Treaty Recognizing the Whitecap Dakota Nation / Wapaha Ska Dakota Oyate Act"
long_title: "An Act to give effect to the self-government treaty recognizing the Whitecap Dakota Nation / Wapaha Ska Dakota Oyate and to make consequential amendments to other Acts"
chapter: "S-8.36"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Self-Government Treaty Recognizing the Whitecap Dakota Nation / Wapaha Ska Dakota Oyate Act

> An Act to give effect to the self-government treaty recognizing the Whitecap Dakota Nation / Wapaha Ska Dakota Oyate and to make consequential amendments to other Acts


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Self-Government Treaty Recognizing the Whitecap Dakota Nation / Wapaha Ska Dakota Oyate Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

The following definitions apply in this Act.

**federal law** has the same meaning as in 1.01 of the Treaty. (**règle de droit fédérale**)

**Indigenous peoples of Canada** has the meaning assigned by the definition **aboriginal peoples of Canada** in subsection 35(2) of the *Constitution Act, 1982*. (**peuples autochtones du Canada**)

**Tax Treatment Agreement** means the tax treatment agreement, as amended from time to time in accordance with its provisions, that is referred to in 11.16 of the Treaty. (**accord sur le traitement fiscal**)

**Treaty** means the treaty entitled “A Self-Government Treaty Recognizing the Whitecap Dakota Nation / Wapaha Ska Dakota Oyate,” signed on behalf of the Whitecap Dakota First Nation and His Majesty in right of Canada on May 2, 2023, as amended from time to time in accordance with its provisions. (**traité**)

**Whitecap Dakota Government** has the same meaning as in 1.01 of the Treaty. (**gouvernement des Dakotas de Whitecap**)

**Whitecap Dakota institution** has the meaning assigned by the definition **WDN Institution** in 1.01 of the Treaty. (**institution**)

**Whitecap Dakota law** has the meaning assigned by the definition **WDN Law** in 1.01 of the Treaty. (**loi de la nation**)

**Whitecap Dakota member** has the meaning assigned by the definition **WDN Member** in 1.01 of the Treaty. (**membre**)

**Whitecap Dakota Nation** has the meaning assigned by the definition **WDN** in 1.01 of the Treaty. (**Nation dakota de Whitecap**)

**Whitecap Dakota reserve lands** has the meaning assigned by the definition **WDN Reserve Lands** in 1.01 of the Treaty. (**terres de réserve**)

### 3 Status of Treaty

For greater certainty, the Treaty is a treaty within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the *Constitution Act, 1982*.

## Treaty

### 4 Treaty given effect

(1) The Treaty is approved, given effect and declared valid and has the force of law.

**Rights and obligations**

(2) For greater certainty, a person or entity has the powers, rights, privileges and benefits conferred on the person or entity by the Treaty and must perform the duties, and is subject to the liabilities, imposed on the person or entity by the Treaty.

**Third parties**

(3) For greater certainty, the Treaty is binding on, and may be relied on by, all persons and entities.

### 5 Treaty prevails

(1) In the event of any conflict between the Treaty and this Act or any other federal law, the Treaty prevails to the extent of the conflict.

**Act prevails**

(2) In the event of any conflict between this Act and any other federal law, this Act prevails to the extent of the conflict.

## Whitecap Dakota Nation

### 6 Capacity, rights, powers and privileges

(1) The Whitecap Dakota Nation is a legal entity and has, subject to the Treaty, the capacity, rights, powers and privileges of a natural person.

**Vesting of rights, interests, etc.**

(2) On the coming into effect of the Treaty, all rights, interests, assets and obligations of the Whitecap Dakota First Nation as a band, within the meaning of the *Indian Act*, vest in the Whitecap Dakota Nation.

**Whitecap Dakota Government**

(3) The Whitecap Dakota Nation exercises the power and authority to make laws, carries out other government functions and otherwise exercises power or authority through the Whitecap Dakota Government.

## Whitecap Dakota Laws

### 7 Third parties

Subject to the Treaty, Whitecap Dakota laws are binding on and may be relied on by all persons and entities, the Whitecap Dakota Nation, the Whitecap Dakota Government and Whitecap Dakota institutions.

## Taxation

### 8 Tax Treatment Agreement

On the day on which the Tax Treatment Agreement comes into effect by application of 11.16 of the Treaty, that Agreement is approved, given effect and declared valid. That Agreement has the force of law during the period in which it is in effect.

### 9 Clarification

The Tax Treatment Agreement does not form part of the Treaty and it is not a treaty or a land claims agreement within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the *Constitution Act, 1982*.

## Application of Other Acts

### 10 *Indian Act*

Subject to the Treaty, the *Indian Act* does not apply to the Whitecap Dakota Nation, the Whitecap Dakota Government, Whitecap Dakota members or Whitecap Dakota reserve lands.

### 11 *Statutory Instruments Act*

The *Statutory Instruments Act* does not apply to Whitecap Dakota laws.

## General

### 12 Judicial notice — Treaty and Tax Treatment Agreement

(1) Judicial notice must be taken of the Treaty and the Tax Treatment Agreement.

**Publication**

(2) The Treaty and the Tax Treatment Agreement must be published by the King’s Printer.

**Evidence**

(3) A copy of the Treaty or the Tax Treatment Agreement published by the King’s Printer is evidence of that Treaty or that Agreement, and of its contents, and a copy purporting to be published by the King’s Printer is presumed to be so published unless the contrary is shown.

### 13 Judicial notice — Whitecap Dakota law

(1) Judicial notice must be taken of any Whitecap Dakota law that is registered in the public registry referred to in 5.12 of the Treaty.

**Evidence**

(2) A copy of any Whitecap Dakota law purporting to be registered in the public registry referred to in 5.12 of the Treaty is evidence of that law and of its contents, unless the contrary is shown.

### 14 *Federal Courts Act*

(1) A decision-making body established under a Whitecap Dakota law, including a Whitecap Dakota institution, is not a **federal board, commission or other tribunal** as defined in subsection 2(1) of the *Federal Courts Act*.

**Saskatchewan Court of King’s Bench**

(2) The Saskatchewan Court of King’s Bench has jurisdiction to

- (a) make orders and issue injunctions and declaratory relief against a decision-making body referred to in subsection (1); and

- (b) undertake judicial review of the decisions of that decision-making body, provided that all review mechanisms set out in Whitecap Dakota laws have been exhausted.

### 15 Notice

(1) If an issue arises in any judicial or administrative proceeding in respect of the interpretation, validity or applicability of the Treaty, of this Act or of any Whitecap Dakota law, then the issue must not be decided until the party raising the issue has served notice

- (a) on the Attorney General of Canada and the Whitecap Dakota Government, in the case of a provision of the Treaty or this Act; and

- (b) on the Whitecap Dakota Government, in the case of a provision of a Whitecap Dakota law.

**Content and timing**

(2) The notice must be served at least 14 days before the day on which the issue is to be argued, unless the court or tribunal authorizes a shorter period, and must identify

- (a) the proceeding;

- (b) the subject matter of the issue;

- (c) the particulars that are necessary to show the point to be argued; and

- (d) the day on which the issue is to be argued.

**Participation**

(3) The recipient of a notice under subsection (1) may appear and participate in the proceeding as a party with the same rights as any other party.

**Clarification**

(4) For greater certainty, subsections (2) and (3) do not require that an oral hearing be held if one is not otherwise required.

### 16 Retroactive effect

Despite subsection 4(1), Chapter 33 and Schedule B of the Treaty are deemed to have effect as of August 22, 2022.

### 17 Orders and regulations

(1) The Governor in Council may make any orders and regulations that the Governor in Council considers necessary for the purpose of carrying out any of the provisions of the Treaty, of the Tax Treatment Agreement or of any other agreements that are related to the implementation of the Treaty.

***First Nations Fiscal Management Act***

(2) For the purpose of enabling the Whitecap Dakota Nation to benefit from the provisions of the *First Nations Fiscal Management Act* or obtain the services of any body established under that Act, the Governor in Council may make any regulations that the Governor in Council considers necessary, including regulations

- (a) adapting any provision of that Act or of any regulation made under that Act; and

- (b) restricting the application of any provision of that Act or of any regulation made under that Act.

## Consequential Amendments

### Access to Information Act

### 18

[Amendments]

### Payments in Lieu of Taxes Act

### 19

[Amendments]

### Privacy Act

### 20

[Amendments]

### 21

[Amendments]

### First Nations Goods and Services Tax Act

### 22

[Amendments]

### 23

[Amendments]

### First Nations Fiscal Management Act

### 24

[Amendments]

## Coming into Force

### [^]25 Order in council

This Act, other than section 16, comes into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.
