---
title: "United Nations Foreign Arbitral Awards Convention Act"
long_title: "An Act to implement the United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards"
chapter: "U-2.4"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# United Nations Foreign Arbitral Awards Convention Act

> An Act to implement the United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *United Nations Foreign Arbitral Awards Convention Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definition of **Convention**

In this Act, **Convention** means the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, adopted by the United Nations Conference on International Commercial Arbitration in New York on June 10, 1958, as set out in the schedule.

## Convention Approved

### 3 Convention approved

The Convention is approved and declared to have the force of law in Canada during such period as, by its terms, the Convention is in force.

### 4 Limited to commercial matters

(1) The Convention applies only to differences arising out of commercial legal relationships, whether contractual or not.

**When applicable**

(2) The Convention applies to arbitral awards and arbitration agreements whether made before or after the coming into force of this Act.

## Inconsistent Laws

### 5 Inconsistent laws

In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Act, or the Convention, and the provisions of any other law, the provisions of this Act and the Convention prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.

## Courts

### 6 Application to court

For the purpose of seeking recognition and enforcement of an arbitral award pursuant to the Convention, application may be made to any superior, district or county court.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S., 1985, c. 16 (2nd Supp.), s. 6; 2002, c. 8, s. 178

</details>

## Publication

### 7 Publication of notice

The Minister of Justice shall cause a notice of the day the Convention comes into force and of the day it ceases to be in force to be published in the *Canada Gazette* within sixty days after its coming into force or ceasing to be in force, and a notice so published shall be judicially noticed.

## Regulations

### 8 Regulations

The Minister of Justice may make such regulations as are necessary for the purpose of carrying out the Convention or for giving effect to any of the provisions thereof.

## Coming into Force

### [^]9 Coming into force

This Act shall come into force on a day to be fixed by proclamation.


## SCHEDULE  Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards

(Section 2)
