---
long_title: "Electrolux Remission Order"
instrument_number: "SI/2005-59"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Electrolux Remission Order


## Definitions

### 1

The following definitions apply in this Order.

**eligible dryers** means gas or electric laundry dryers, excluding those with controls at the front, removable tops and chassis designed to be stacked on top of washers, imported by Electrolux. (**sécheuses admissibles**)

**eligible refrigerators** means top-mounted electric refrigerators, in sizes greater than 14.5 cubic feet (410.59 litres) and less than 18.5 cubic feet (524 litres), imported by Electrolux. (**réfrigérateurs admissibles**)

**imported by Electrolux** means imported by Electrolux Canada Corp. (formerly known as WCI Canada Inc.), originating in or exported from the United States and bearing a trademark owned by Electrolux Home Products, Inc. (formerly known as White Consolidated Industries, Inc.), its affiliates, successors, or assigns. (**importé par Electrolux**)

## Remission

### 2

Remission is hereby granted of anti-dumping duties paid under the *Special Import Measures Act* by Electrolux Canada Corp. on importations of eligible refrigerators and eligible dryers during the period beginning on April 3, 2000, and ending on October 31, 2001.

### 3

The amount of the remission is the portion of the anti-dumping duties paid that exceeds the margin of dumping of the imported goods calculated on the basis of the methodology employed in the re-determinations made by the Commissioner of Customs and Revenue on December 5, 2003 pursuant to paragraph 59(1)(e) of the *Special Import Measures Act* with respect to certain eligible refrigerators and certain eligible dryers imported after October 31, 2001.

## Conditions

### 4

Remission is granted on the conditions that the claim for remission

- (a) is made to the Canada Border Services Agency within two years after the date on which this Order is made; and

- (b) is accompanied by the documentation required to determine the eligiblity for remission and the specific amount of anti-dumping duties to be remitted.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, considering that the collection of certain amounts of duty is unjust, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to subsection 23(2)[^] of the *Financial Administration Act*, hereby makes the annexed *Electrolux Remission Order*.

