---
long_title: "Goose Bay Airport Zoning Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2001-518"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Goose Bay Airport Zoning Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**airport** means the Goose Bay Airport, situated in the Electoral District of Lake Melville, in the Province of Newfoundland. (**aéroport**)

**airport zoning reference point** means a point having an elevation of 44.6 metres above mean sea level, described in Part 1 of the schedule. (**point de repère du zonage de l’aéroport**)

**approach surfaces** means the imaginary inclined planes that extend upward and outward from each end of a strip, more particularly described in Part 3 of the schedule. (**surface d’approche**)

**outer surface** means an imaginary plane located above and in the immediate vicinity of the airport, more particularly described in Part 5 of the schedule, the outer limits of which are described in Part 6 of the schedule. (**surface extérieure**)

**strip** means a rectangular portion of the landing area of the airport, including the runway, that is prepared for the take-off and landing of aircraft in a particular direction, more particularly described in Part 2 of the schedule. (**bande**)

**transitional surface** means an imaginary inclined plane that extends upward and outward from the lateral limits of a strip and its approach surfaces, more particularly described in Part 4 of the schedule. (**surface de transition**)

## Application

### 2

These Regulations apply in respect of all lands, other than airport lands, and public road allowances that are adjacent to or in the vicinity of the airport, the outer limits of which lands are described in Part 7 of the schedule.

## Building Restrictions

### 3

No person shall place, erect or construct or permit to be placed, erected or constructed on any land in respect of which these Regulations apply any building, structure or object, or an addition to any existing building, structure or object, the highest point of which would exceed in elevation at the location of the building, structure or object

- (a) an approach surface;

- (b) the outer surface; or

- (c) a transitional surface.

## Natural Growth

### 4

No owner or lessee of any lands in respect of which these Regulations apply shall permit an object of natural growth to exceed in elevation any of the surfaces referred to in section 3 that project immediately over and above the surface of the land at the location of the object.

## Electronic Zoning

### 5

No owner or lessee of any lands in respect of which these Regulations apply shall permit those lands or any part of them to be used in a manner that may cause interference with aeronautical communications.

## Bird Hazards

### 6

In order to reduce bird hazards to aviation, no owner or lessee of lands referred to in these Regulations shall permit those lands or any part of them to be used as a site for

- (a) a sanitary land fill;

- (b) a food garbage disposal site;

- (c) a sewage lagoon; or

- (d) an open water storage reservoir.

## Repeal

### 7

[Repeal]

## Coming into Force

### 8

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Whereas, pursuant to subsection 5.5(1)[^] of the *Aeronautics Act*, a copy of the proposed *Goose Bay Airport Zoning Regulations*, substantially in the form set out in the annexed regulations, was published in two successive issues of newspapers serving the area to which the proposed regulations relate, namely on March 19 and 26, 2001 in *The Labradorian* and in two successive issues of the *Canada Gazette* Part I, on March 24 and 31, 2001, and a reasonable opportunity was afforded to interested persons to make representations to the Minister of National Defence with respect to the proposed regulations;



## SCHEDULE

(sections 1 and 2)

### Description of the Airport Zoning Reference Point

### Description of Each Strip

### Description of Approach Surfaces

### Description of Each Transitional Surface

### Description of the Outer Surface

### Description of the Outer Limits of the Outer Surface

### Description of the Outer Limits of Lands Affected by These Regulations
