---
long_title: "Haisla Nation Liquefied Natural Gas Facility Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2012-293"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Haisla Nation Liquefied Natural Gas Facility Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**incorporated laws** means the statutes, regulations and other legislative instruments of British Columbia, or the portions of them, set out in Schedule 2, as amended from time to time and as adapted by sections 13 to 43. (**textes législatifs incorporés**)

**project lands** means the lands set out in Schedule 1. (**terres du projet**)

### 2 Provincial *Interpretation Act*

The incorporated laws are to be interpreted in accordance with the British Columbia *Interpretation Act* (R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 238), as amended from time to time, and, for that purpose, references to “enactment” in that Act are to be read to include the incorporated laws.

### 3 Other expressions

For greater certainty, the adaptations in sections 13 to 43 are to be interpreted to be part of the incorporated laws to which they apply.

## Application of Laws

### 4 Incorporation by reference

Subject to section 5, the incorporated laws apply to the project lands.

### 5 Restriction

(1) A provision of an incorporated law applies only if the provision of the law of British Columbia that it incorporates is in force.

**Restriction**

(2) For greater certainty, an incorporated law applies only to the extent that it is within the limits of federal constitutional authority.

### 6 Incorporation of procedural matters

(1) Unless otherwise provided and subject to any adaptations set out in sections 13 to 43, the following are to be carried out in accordance with the laws of British Columbia, whether or not those laws have been set out in Schedule 2:

- (a) the enforcement of incorporated laws;

- (b) the prosecution of an offence, or any other proceedings, in relation to the contravention of an incorporated law;

- (c) the review or appeal of an action or decision taken, or of a failure to take an action that could have been taken, under an incorporated law;

- (d) any requirements for notice or service in relation to an action to be taken under an incorporated law.

**Related powers**

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person or body that has a power, duty or function under a law of British Columbia has the same power, duty or function in respect of any actions taken under that subsection.

### 7 Offences and penalties

If contravention of a law of British Columbia that is incorporated in these Regulations is an offence under the laws of British Columbia, contravention of the incorporated law is also an offence and is subject to the same penalties as under the laws of British Columbia.

### 8 Financial requirements under lease

If the incorporated laws require a cash deposit or other financial security to be given, those requirements do not displace, but instead apply in addition to, the requirements of any lease of the project lands in relation to cash deposits or other financial security.

## Inapplicable Federal Regulations

### 9 Exclusion

The *Indian Reserve Waste Disposal Regulations* do not apply to the project lands.

## Construction Standards

### 10 Conformity with British Columbia standards

Construction of and alterations to buildings on the project lands must be done in accordance with the *British Columbia Building Code* and *British Columbia Fire Code*, as amended from time to time.

### 11 Occupancy permit

(1) No building on the project lands is to be occupied unless the Haisla Nation, or a person authorized by the Haisla Nation, has issued an occupancy permit for that building.

**Occupancy permit**

(2) The Haisla Nation, or a person authorized by the Haisla Nation, must issue an occupancy permit for a building within 15 days after it receives written confirmation by a person registered or licensed as a professional engineer under the *Engineers and Geoscientists Act* (R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 116) that the building was constructed in accordance with section 10.

## Transitional Provision

### 12 Survival of rights

Any permits, authorizations, orders or exemptions — including any amendments to them — issued by the British Columbia Oil and Gas Commission in relation to the project lands prior to the coming into force of these Regulations are considered to have been issued under these Regulations and to be valid for the purposes of these Regulations.

## Adaptations Applicable to All Incorporated Laws

### 13 British Columbia statutes and regulations

Unless otherwise indicated, the statutes and regulations referred to in sections 18 to 43 are statutes and regulations of British Columbia.

### 14 Interpretation of incorporated laws

(1) The incorporated laws are to be read without reference to any of the following:

- (a) spent provisions and provisions making consequential amendments to other enactments that are not incorporated laws;

- (b) provisions appointing a person, providing for the remuneration of a person, or establishing or continuing a provincial body, program or fund;

- (c) provisions relating to the internal management of a provincial body;

- (d) provisions requiring or authorizing monies to be paid from the Consolidated Revenue Fund of British Columbia;

- (e) provisions authorizing the Lieutenant-Governor in Council, a Minister or a provincial body to make regulations of general application, except to the extent required to make the regulations set out in Schedule 2.

**Interpretation of incorporated laws**

(2) Despite paragraph (1)(b),

- (a) a person appointed to a position under a law of British Columbia that has been incorporated by reference in these Regulations is considered to have been appointed to the same position for the purposes of these Regulations, for so long as that person remains in that position under the law of British Columbia; and

- (b) a provincial body, program or fund established or continued under a law of British Columbia that has been incorporated by reference in these Regulations is considered to have been established or continued for the purposes of these Regulations.

**Specified officials and bodies**

(3) For greater certainty, a person or body that has a power, duty or function under a law of British Columbia incorporated by reference in these Regulations has the same power, duty or function under these Regulations, subject to the adaptations set out in sections 18 to 43.

**Interpretation of adapted laws**

(4) For greater certainty, if a law of British Columbia is adapted by these Regulations, a reference to that law in an incorporated law or in any notice, form, instrument or other document issued under an incorporated law is to be read as a reference to that law as adapted by these Regulations.

### 15 Exclusion

Unless otherwise provided by these Regulations, a provision of an incorporated law that imposes an obligation, liability or penalty on an owner, occupier, public authority, public body or unspecified person or entity does not apply to Her Majesty in right of Canada or federal ministers or officials.

### 16 Limitation on searches and inspections

A power to search or make inspections under an incorporated law, including the power to enter a place, does not include a power to enter or search, or to inspect anything in, a federal government office, without the consent of the person who is or appears to be in charge of that office.

### 17 Limitation on production of documents

A power to seize, remove or compel the production of documents under an incorporated law does not include a power to seize, remove or compel the production of a document in the possession of the federal government, without the consent of the person in possession of the document.

## Adaptations to the Environmental Management Act and Regulations

### 18 Municipalities

The *Environmental Management Act* and the regulations made under it set out in Schedule 2 are to be read without reference to any powers conferred on a municipality or an employee of a municipality.

### *Environmental Management Act*

### 19 Adaptation to Part 4

For the purposes of Part 4 of the *Environmental Management Act*, the standard to be applied for remediation is a standard consistent with industrial land use.

### 20 Adaptation to section 40(1)(b)

In section 40(1)(b) of the Act, a reference to “the applicable municipality” is to be read as a reference to “the director”.

### 21 Adaptation to section 55(6)

Section 55(6) of the Act is to be read as follows:

### 22 Adaptation to section 61(1)

In section 61(1) of the Act, a reference to “government” is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada and the Haisla Nation.

### *Contaminated Sites Regulation*

### 23 General adaptation

For the purposes of the *Contaminated Sites Regulation*, the standard to be applied for remediation is a standard consistent with industrial land use.

### 24 General adaptation

For greater certainty, the power of the director to require financial security under section 48(4) of the Regulation does not include the power to require financial security from Her Majesty in right of Canada.

## Adaptation to the Forest Practices Board Regulation

### 25 General adaptation

The *Forest Practices Board Regulation* applies only insofar as it relates to the *Wildfire Act*.

## Adaptation to the Integrated Pest Management Regulation

### 26 Adaptation to section 1 **Crown land**

For the purposes of the *Integrated Pest Management Regulation*, the project lands are to be considered as private lands.

## Adaptation to the Occupiers Liability Act

### 27 Adaptation to section 1 **occupier**

The definition of **occupier** in section 1 of the *Occupiers Liability Act* is to be read to exclude the Haisla Nation.

## Adaptations to the Oil and Gas Activities Act and Regulations

### *Oil and Gas Activities Act*

### 28 General adaptation

For the purposes of the *Oil and Gas Activities Act* and the regulations made under it set out in Schedule 2, the project lands are to be considered as unoccupied Crown land.

### 29 Survival of rights

Instead of granting a permit or giving an authorization under the Act, the commission may rely on a permit issued, or other authorization given, under the *Indian Act* (Canada) in relation to the project lands.

### 30 Adaptation to section 1(2) **specified enactment**

(1) The definition of **specified enactment** in section 1(2) of the Act is to be read without reference to the *Land Act*, the *Forest Act* and the *Heritage Conservation Act*.

**Adaptation to section 1(2) **specified provision****

(2) The definition of **specified provision** in section 1(2) of the Act is to be read without reference to paragraphs (b) to (d).

### 31 Adaptation to section 23(5)

Section 23(5) of the Act is to be read without reference to paragraph (a).

### 32 Adaptation to section 34(2)(a)(i)

In section 34(2)(a)(i) of the Act, a reference to the *Land Act* is to be read as a reference to the *Indian Act* (Canada).

### 33 Adaptation to section 53(3)

The powers of the commissioner under section 53(3) of the Act do not include the power to make an order against Her Majesty in right of Canada.

### 34 Adaptation to section 56(1)

In section 56(1) of the Act, a reference to “government” is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada.

### 35 Adaptation to sections 74(2)(a) and 76(6)(a)

In sections 74(2)(a) and 76(6)(a) of the Act, a reference to “person” is to be read to exclude Her Majesty in right of Canada.

### *Administrative Penalties Regulation*

### 36 Adaptation to section 2(1)

Section 2(1) of the *Administrative Penalties Regulation* is to be read without reference to section 36(1) of the Act.

### 37 Adaptation to section 3

Section 3 of the Regulation is to be read without reference to section 19 of the *Environmental Protection and Management Regulation*.

### *Environmental Protection and Management Regulation*

### 38 Adaptation to sections 6(b) and (d)

Sections 6(b) and (d) of the *Environmental Protection and Management Regulation* are to be read to apply only to wildlife habitat areas and wildlife habitat features located outside the project lands.

### 39 Adaptation to section 7(1)(b)

(1) Section 7(1)(b) of the Regulation is to be read to apply only to resource features located outside the project lands.

**Adaptation to section 7(1)(c)**

(2) Section 7(1)(c) of the Regulation is to be read to apply only to cultural heritage resources located outside the project lands.

## Adaptation to the Public Health Act

### 40 Adaptation to section 99(1)(d)

Section 99(1)(d) of the *Public Health Act* is to be read as follows:

## Adaptations to the Weed Control Act and Regulations

### *Weed Control Act*

### 41 General adaptation

For the purposes of the *Weed Control Act* and the regulations made under it set out in Schedule 2, the project lands are not to be considered as land, premises or property in a municipality.

### *Weed Control Regulation*

### 42 Adaptation to Schedule B

Schedule B to the *Weed Control Regulation* is to be read without reference to the sentence “If that cost is not paid it may, under section 8 of the Act, be collected and recovered as taxes in arrears under the *Municipal Act* or as unpaid taxes under the *Taxation (Rural Area) Act*”.

## Adaptation to the Wildfire Act and Regulations

### 43 General adaptation

For the purposes of the *Wildfire Act* and the regulations made under it set out in Schedule 2, the project lands are to be considered as private lands.

## Coming into Force

### 44 Registration

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Whereas the Haisla Nation has requested by resolution of its council that the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development recommend to the Governor in Council the making of the annexed Regulations and, in accordance with paragraph 5(1)(a) of the *First Nations Commercial and Industrial Development Act*[^], the Minister has received that resolution;



## SCHEDULE 1  Project Lands

(Section 1)


## SCHEDULE 2  Incorporated Laws

(Section 1, subsection 6(1), paragraph 14(1)(e), sections 18, 28, 41 and 43)

### Statutes and Regulations

### Other Legislative Instruments
