---
long_title: "General Export Permit No. 38 — CWC Toxic Chemical and Precursor Mixtures"
instrument_number: "SOR/98-265"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> General Export Permit No. 38 — CWC Toxic Chemical and Precursor Mixtures


## Interpretation

### 1

The definitions in this section apply in this Permit.

**CWC toxic chemicals and precursors** means the goods referred to in Group 7 of the schedule to the *Export Control List* that are described in any of items 7-3.3 to 7-3.6 of the Guide. (**produits chimiques toxiques et précurseurs CAC**)

**Export Controls Division** means the Export Controls Division of the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade. (**Direction des contrôles à l’exportation**)

**Guide** has the same meaning as in section 1 of the *Export Control List*. (**Guide**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2007-211, s. 1

</details>

## Application

### 2

Subject to section 3, this Permit authorizes the exportation of mixtures of CWC toxic chemicals and precursors to any country other than to a country listed on the *Area Control List* or to Iraq or North Korea.

## General

### 3

A resident of Canada may, under the authority of and in accordance with this Permit, export from Canada

- (a) mixtures that contain less than 10 per cent by weight of any CWC toxic chemical or precursor described in item 7-3.3 or 7-3.4 of the Guide; and

- (b) mixtures that contain less than 25 per cent by weight of any CWC toxic chemical or precursor described in item 7-3.5 or 7-3.6 of the Guide.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2007-211, s. 2

</details>

## Conditions

### 4

It is a condition of this Permit that the exporter

- (a) keep at the exporter’s place of business or residence any documents in respect of each export made under this Permit for a period of six years after the date of the export;

- (b) on request, make the documents referred to in paragraph (a) available to an officer of the Export Controls Division; and

- (c) where mixtures of CWC toxic chemicals and precursors are required to be reported in a prescribed form under the *Customs Act*, insert the expression “GEP-38” or “LGE-38” in the appropriate field of the prescribed form.

## Coming into Force

### 5

This Permit comes into force on April 23, 1998.

> The Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to subsection 7(1.1)[^] of the *Export and Import Permits Act*, hereby issues the annexed *General Export Permit No. 38 — CWC Toxic Chemical and Precursor Mixtures*.

