---
long_title: "Quebec Wood Producers’ Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order"
instrument_number: "SOR/98-277"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Quebec Wood Producers’ Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order


## Interpretation

### 1

The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

**buyer** means a person who acquires or receives wood that is subject to the Plan from a producer. (**acheteur**)

**Commodity Board** means the Syndicat des propriétaires forestiers de la région de Québec. (**Syndicat**)

**Plan** means the *Plan conjoint des producteurs de bois de la région de Québec*, RLRQ, c. M-35.1, r. 124. (**Plan**)

**producer** means a producer who is subject to the Plan and engaged in the production or marketing of wood. (**producteur**)

**wood** means wood that is produced in the Quebec Region and that is subject to the Plan. (**bois**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2009-312, s. 2; SOR/2014-245, s. 1

</details>

## Levies

### 2

Every producer shall pay to the Commodity Board, for all wood marketed by the producer in interprovincial and export trade, the applicable levies fixed or imposed in the following regulations, as amended from time to time:

- (a) *Règlement sur les contributions des producteurs de bois de la région de Québec*, RLRQ, c. M-35.1, r. 117.1; and

- (b) *Règlement sur les fonds du Syndicat des propriétaires forestiers de la région de Québec*, RLRQ, c. M-35.1, r. 121.1.

- (c) [Repealed, SOR/2014-245, s. 2]

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2009-312, s. 3; SOR/2014-245, s. 2

</details>

## Method of Collection

### 3

All levies fixed and imposed under the Regulations set out in section 2 are payable by the producer or the buyer to the Commodity Board at its head office located in Quebec City, Quebec in compliance with the terms and conditions set out in those Regulations, including, as the case may be, by direct payment from the producer to the Commodity Board, by a deduction made by the Commodity Board from the sale price payable to the producer or by a deduction effected by the buyer and remitted directly to the Commodity Board.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2009-312, s. 3

</details>

### 4

[Repealed, SOR/2009-312, s. 3]

## Coming into Force

### 5

This Order comes into force on May 1, 1998.

> The Quebec Region Wood Producers’ Syndicate, pursuant to sections 3[^] and 4 of the *Quebec Wood Order, 1983*, made by Order in Council P.C. 1983-2885 of September 22, 1983[^], hereby makes the annexed *Quebec Wood Producers’ Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order*.

