---
long_title: "General Export Permit No. 37 — Toxic Chemicals and Precursors to the United States"
instrument_number: "SOR/98-264"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> General Export Permit No. 37 — Toxic Chemicals and Precursors to the United States


## Interpretation

### 1

The definitions in this section apply in this Permit.

**Export Controls Division** means the Export Controls Division of the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade. (**Direction des contrôles à l’exportation**)

**Guide** has the same meaning as in section 1 of the *Export Control List*. (**Guide**)

**toxic chemicals and precursors** means the goods referred to in Group 7 of the schedule to the *Export Control List* that are described in any of items 7-3.3 to 7-3.6 or item 7-4 of the Guide. (**produits chimiques toxiques et précurseurs**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2007-210, s. 1

</details>

## General

### 2

Any resident of Canada may, under the authority of and in accordance with this Permit, export toxic chemicals and precursors from Canada to the United States.

## Conditions

### 3

It is a condition of this Permit that the exporter

- (a) keep at the exporter’s place of business or residence the documents in respect of each export made under this Permit for a period of six years after the date of the export;

- (b) on request, make the documents referred to in paragraph (a) available to an officer of the Export Controls Division; and

- (c) where any toxic chemicals and precursors are required to be reported in the prescribed form under the *Customs Act*, insert the statement “GEP-37” or “LGE-37” in the appropriate field of the prescribed form.

## Coming into Force

### 4

This Permit comes into force on April 23, 1998.

> The Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to subsection 7(1.1)[^] of the *Export and Import Permits Act*, hereby issues the annexed *General Export Permit No. 37 — Toxic Chemicals and Precursors to the United States*.

