---
long_title: "Goods Imported by Designated Foreign Countries, Military Service Agencies and Institutions (Tariff Item No. 9810.00.00) Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/98-57"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Goods Imported by Designated Foreign Countries, Military Service Agencies and Institutions (Tariff Item No. 9810.00.00) Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

**designated** means designated pursuant to paragraph 132(1)(g) of the *Customs Tariff*. (**désigné**)

**goods** means goods described in tariff item No. 9810.00.00. (**marchandises**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/99-233, s. 5

</details>

## Conditions

### 2

Where goods are imported by a designated foreign country, the importer shall furnish to an officer, at the time of importation, a certificate in the form set out in Schedule 1, completed in English or French and signed by an official authorized by the foreign country.

### 3

Where goods are imported and consigned to a designated military service agency or institution, the importer shall furnish to an officer, at the time of importation, a certificate in the form set out in Schedule 2, completed in English or French and signed by an official authorized by that agency or institution.

## Coming into Force

### 4

These Regulations come into force on January 1, 1998.

> His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of National Revenue, pursuant to paragraph 133(c) of the *Customs Tariff*[^], hereby makes the annexed *Goods Imported by Designated Foreign Countries, Military Service Agencies and Institutions (Tariff Item No. 9810.00.00) Regulations*.



## SCHEDULE 1

(Section 2)


## SCHEDULE 2

(Section 3)
