---
long_title: "Payments to the Provinces Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2007-252"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Payments to the Provinces Regulations


### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**Act** means the *Softwood Lumber Products Export Charge Act, 2006*. (**Loi**)

**non-excluded provinces** means Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Alberta. (**provinces non exclues**)

### 2 Application

These Regulations apply in respect of the amount of the payments to be made to the provinces by the Minister of National Revenue under section 99 of the Act.

### 3 First calculation

(1) The first calculation of an amount of a payment is for the period beginning on October 12, 2006 and ending on September 30, 2007.

**Later calculations**

(2) Later calculations are to be made in respect of calendar quarters.

**Reconciliation**

(3) Except for the final reconciliation, a reconciliation of the amounts used in calculations is to be made annually.

### 4 Revenue

The amount of revenue to be attributed to a province is the revenue derived from the charge imposed under section 10 or 15 of the Act on softwood lumber products originating from that province.

### 5 Costs

(1) The amount of the costs referred to in paragraphs 99(1)(a) and (b) of the Act to be attributed to a non-excluded province for a period is determined by the formula

```
A × (B/C)
where
Ais the costs that the Minister becomes aware of during the period;
Bis the volume in board feet of softwood lumber products exported from the non-excluded province to the United States during the period under export permits;
Cis the volume in board feet of softwood lumber products exported from all of the non-excluded provinces to the United States during the period under export permits.
```


**Exception**

(2) In the case of the costs referred to in paragraph 99(1)(b) of the Act, the formula applies unless the Minister determines otherwise under section 99 of the Act.

### 6 Coming into force

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister for International Trade and the Minister of National Revenue, pursuant to subsection 100(2) of the *Softwood Lumber Products Export Charge Act, 2006*[^], hereby makes the annexed *Payments to the Provinces Regulations*.

