---
long_title: "Ottawa Macdonald-Cartier International Airport Zoning Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2009-231"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Ottawa Macdonald-Cartier International Airport Zoning Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

(1) The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**airport** means the Ottawa Macdonald-Cartier International Airport, in the City of Ottawa, in the Province of Ontario. (**aéroport**)

**airport reference point** means a point near the centre of the airport as described in Part 1 of the schedule. (**point de référence de l’aéroport**)

**bird hazard zone** means the area in the immediate vicinity of the airport as described in Part 7 of the schedule. (**zone de péril aviaire**)

**outer surface** means the imaginary surface located above and in the immediate vicinity of the airport as described in Part 3 of the schedule. (**surface extérieure**)

**strip surface** means an imaginary surface associated with the airport runways as described in Part 4 of the schedule, including proposed runways or runway extensions, prepared for the take-off and landing of aircraft in a particular direction. (**surface de bande**)

**take-off/approach surface** means an imaginary inclined surface as described in Part 2 of the schedule, that extends upward and outward from each end of a strip surface. (**surface de décollage/d’approche**)

**transitional surface** means an imaginary inclined surface as described in Part 5 of the schedule, that extends upward and outward from the lateral limits of a strip surface and a take-off/approach surface. (**surface de transition**)

(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, the assigned elevation of the airport reference points is 106.790 m above sea level, Canadian Geodetic Vertical Datum — CGVD28.

## Application

### 2

These Regulations apply in respect of all land, including public road allowances, that is adjacent to or in the vicinity of the airport, within the outer limit described in Part 6 of the schedule.

## Building Restrictions

### 3

No person shall erect or construct, on land in respect of which these Regulations apply, a building, structure or object, or an addition to an existing building, structure or object, any part of which would, at the location of that part of the building, structure, object or addition, exceed in elevation

- (a) a take-off/approach surface;

- (b) the outer surface;

- (c) a transitional surface; or

- (d) a strip surface.

## Interference with Communication

### 4

No owner or lessee of land within the limit of the outer surface shall permit any part of that land to be used or developed in a manner that causes interference with any signal or communication to or from an aircraft or any facility used to provide services relating to aeronautics.

## Natural Growth

### 5

No owner or lessee of land in respect of which these Regulations apply shall permit any part of an object of natural growth that is on the land to grow to a height that exceeds, at the location of that part of the object, the elevation of any surface referred to in section 3.

## Bird Hazard

### 6

No owner or lessee of land within the limits of the bird hazard zone shall permit any part of that land to be used for activities or uses attracting birds that create a hazard to aviation safety.

## Repeal

### 7

[Repeal]

## Coming into Force

### [^]8

These Regulations come into force on the day on which the requirements prescribed in subsection 5.6(2) of the *Aeronautics Act* are met.

> Whereas, pursuant to subsection 5.5(1)[^] of the *Aeronautics Act*[^], a notice of the proposed *Ottawa Macdonald-Cartier International Airport Zoning Regulations*, was published in two successive issues of the *Canada Gazette*, Part I, on March 15 and March 22, 2008, and issues of the *Ottawa Citizen* and *Le Droit* on March 26 and 29, 2008 and May 2 and 3, 2008, and a reasonable opportunity was thereby afforded to interested persons to make representations to the Minister of Transport, Infrastructure and Communities with respect to the proposed Regulations;



## SCHEDULE

(Subsection 1(1) and section 2)

### Description of the Airport Reference Points

### Description of the Take-off/Approach Surfaces

### Description of the Outer Surface

### Description of the Strip Surfaces

### Description of the Transitional Surfaces

### Description of the Outer Limit of the Land in Respect of Which These Regulations Apply

### Description of the Bird Hazard Zone
