---
long_title: "Regulations Clarifying the Application of Provisions of the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2002-195"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Regulations Clarifying the Application of Provisions of the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations


## Interpretation

### 1

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**Act** means the *Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act*. (**Loi**)

**common-law partner** means, in relation to an individual, a person who is cohabiting with the individual in a conjugal relationship, having so cohabited for a period of at least one year. (**conjoint de fait**)

**Convention** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the Act. (**Convention**)

## Clarification

### 2

(1) For the purpose of clarifying, in relation to section 5 of the Act, the application of provisions of the Convention, in particular paragraphs 11(d) and 18(d) and (f) and section 19, the Convention shall be applied in Canada in a manner that extends to common-law partners the treatment afforded to spouses.

(2) For the purpose of clarifying, in relation to section 5 of the Act, the application of provisions of the Convention, the *Organization of American States Privileges and Immunities in Canada Order*, the *International Telecommunication Union Privileges and Immunities Order* and subsection 5(1) of the *Agence de la Francophonie and the Institut de l’énergie et de l’environnement de la Francophonie Privileges and Immunities Order*, the privileges and immunities accorded under paragraphs 11(d) and 18(d) and (f) and section 19 of the Convention are extended to the spouses and common-law partners of the persons referred to in those provisions.

(3) For the purpose of clarifying, in relation to section 5 of the Act, the application of provisions of the Convention, in particular section 19, the Convention shall be applied in Canada in a manner that extends, to the minor children of a spouse or common-law partner of the persons referred to in that section, the treatment afforded to the minor children of those persons.

## Coming into Force

### 3

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Whereas the Governor General in Council considers it necessary to clarify, in relation to section 5 of the *Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act*[^], the application of the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations.

