---
long_title: "Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations (Canadian Forces)"
instrument_number: "SOR/2008-247"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations (Canadian Forces)


## Interpretation

### 1

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**military police** does not include the Canadian Forces National Investigation Service. (**police militaire**)

**Office of the Provost Marshal** means the Office of the Canadian Forces Provost Marshal located at National Defence Headquarters in Ottawa. (**bureau du grand prévôt**)

**sex offender** has the same meaning as in subsection 3(1) of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*. (**délinquant sexuel**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2014-120, ss. 1(E), 2(F)

</details>

## Application

### 2

These Regulations apply to a sex offender who is subject to the Code of Service Discipline or who is an officer, or non-commissioned member, of the primary reserve.

## Registration Centres

### 3

(1) For the purpose of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*, the following places are designated as registration centres:

- (a) in Canada,
  - (i) the Office of the Provost Marshal, and
  - (ii) the place located on each defence establishment set out in the schedule that serves as the station of the military police; and

- (b) outside Canada, each place that serves as the station of military police that carry out law enforcement operations.

(2) A registration centre serves any sex offender to whom these Regulations apply.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2014-120, s. 2(F)

</details>

## Means of Reporting and Notification

### Reporting

#### First Report

### 4

For the purpose of subsection 4(3) of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*, the first report by a sex offender under that Act shall be in person.

#### Subsequent Report

### 5

(1) For the purpose of subsection 4.1(2) of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*, a report by a sex offender under paragraph 4.1(1)(a) or (b) of that Act shall be in person or by telephone, facsimile or electronic mail.

(2) For the purpose of subsection 4.1(2) of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*, a report by a sex offender under paragraph 4.1(1)(c) of that Act shall be in person.

### Notification

### 6

For the purpose of section 6 of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*, any notification that a sex offender is required to provide under that section shall be in person or by telephone, facsimile or electronic mail.

## Persons Authorized to Collect Information

### 7

For the purpose of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*, the following persons are authorized to collect information in relation to sex offenders to whom these Regulations apply:

- (a) a member of the military police; and

- (b) a person employed by the military police or the Office of the Provost Marshal, whose duties include the collection of information under that Act.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2014-120, s. 2(F)

</details>

## Persons Authorized to Register Information

### 8

For the purpose of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*, any person who is authorized under section 7 to collect information is authorized to register information in relation to sex offenders to whom these Regulations apply.

## Designated Class of Operations

### 9

All operations that involve a unit or other element of the Canadian Special Operations Forces Command are designated for the purpose of subsection 227.16(1) of the *National Defence Act*.

## Coming into Force

### [^]10

These Regulations come into force on the day on which *An Act to amend the National Defence Act, the Criminal Code, the Sex Offender Information Registration Act and the Criminal Records Act*, chapter 5 of the Statutes of Canada, 2007, comes into force, but if these Regulations are registered after that day, they come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of National Defence, pursuant to section 227.2[^] of the *National Defence Act*[^], hereby makes the annexed *Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations (Canadian Forces)*.



## SCHEDULE  Defence Establishments

(Subparagraph 3(1)(a)(ii))

### Ontario

### Quebec

### Nova Scotia

### New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island

### Manitoba and Saskatchewan

### British Columbia

### Alberta, Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut

### Newfoundland and Labrador
