---
long_title: "Cellulose Fibre Insulation Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2016-177"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Cellulose Fibre Insulation Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**cellulose fibre insulation** means cellulose fibre for use as loose-fill thermal insulation in the interior of new and existing buildings. (**isolant en fibres cellulosiques**)

**insulation standard** means the Underwriters Laboratories of Canada standard CAN/ULC-S703, entitled *Standard for Cellulose Fibre Insulation for Buildings*, as amended from time to time. (**norme sur l’isolant**)

## Specifications

### 2 Minimum critical radiant flux

(1) When cellulose fibre insulation is tested in accordance with section 6.3.9 of the insulation standard, all three test specimens must have a critical radiant flux greater than or equal to 0.12 W/cm^2^.

**Additional specimens**

(2) Despite subsection (1), if only one of the three test specimens has a critical radiant flux less than 0.12 W/cm^2^, three more specimens must be tested, all of which must have a critical radiant flux greater than or equal to 0.12 W/cm^2^.

### 3 Combustion and loss of mass

Cellulose fibre insulation must not exhibit any flaming combustion or any loss of mass greater than 15% when tested in accordance with sections 6.3.3 and 6.3.12 of the insulation standard.

### 4 Separation of non-cellulosic components

Cellulose fibre insulation must not exhibit any separation of non-cellulosic components greater than 1.5% by mass when tested in accordance with section 6.3.11 of the insulation standard.

### 5 Corrosiveness — metal

A test specimen that is made of aluminum, copper or steel must not exhibit any perforation when cellulose fibre insulation is tested in accordance with section 6.3.2 of the insulation standard.

## Information

### 6 Required information

(1) Subject to subsection (2), cellulose fibre insulation that is sold to a consumer must have the following information marked on its container legibly and in a prominent location:

- (a) the name and principal place of business in Canada of either of the following:
  - (i) the manufacturer, if the insulation is manufactured in Canada, or
  - (ii) the importer, if the insulation is imported; and

- (b) the day, month and year of its manufacture.

**Exception — no container**

(2) If the cellulose fibre insulation has no container, the information must be marked on the packaging or, if there is no packaging, on the bill of sale or other document given to the consumer at the time of sale.

## Repeal

### 7

[Repeal]

## Coming into Force

### 8 Registration

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the *Canada Consumer Product Safety Act*[^], makes the annexed *Cellulose Fibre Insulation Regulations*.

