---
long_title: "Muskowekwan First Nation Solution Potash Mining Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2017-47"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Muskowekwan First Nation Solution Potash Mining Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**incorporated laws** means the statutes and regulations of Saskatchewan, or any portions of them, that are set out in Schedule 3, as amended from time to time and as adapted by sections 11 to 43. (**texte législatif incorporé**)

**potash** means all natural mineral salts of boron, calcium, lithium, magnesium, potassium, sodium, bromine, chlorine, fluorine, iodine, nitrogen, phosphorus and sulfur, and their compounds, occurring more than 60 m below the surface of the project lands. (**potasse**)

**project** means the exploration for potash and the development of potash located within the project lands and the construction, modification, operation, decommissioning, reclamation and abandonment of a solution potash mine on those project lands. (**projet**)

**project lands** means
  - (a) Muskowekwan First Nation reserve lands that are set out in Schedule 1;
  - (b) entitlement lands that are set out in Schedule 2 and that are added to the Muskowekwan First Nation Reserve under subsection 5(1) of the *Claim Settlements (Alberta and Saskatchewan) Implementation Act*; and
  - (c) road allowances that are adjacent to any lands set out in Schedule 1 or 2 and that are set apart as reserve lands for the use and benefit of the Muskowekwan First Nation under the *Saskatchewan Treaty Land Entitlement Framework Agreement*. (**terres du projet**)

### 2 Provincial *Interpretation Act, 1995*

The incorporated laws are to be interpreted in accordance with the Saskatchewan statute *The Interpretation Act, 1995*, S.S. 1995, c. I-11.2, as amended from time to time and, for that purpose, references to “enactment” in that Act are to be read to include the incorporated laws.

### 3 Other expressions

For greater certainty, the adaptations in sections 11 to 43 are to be interpreted to be part of the incorporated laws to which they apply.

## Application of Laws

### 4 Incorporation by reference

Subject to section 5, the incorporated laws apply to the project.

### 5 Restriction — laws in force

(1) A provision of an incorporated law applies only if the provision of the law of Saskatchewan that it incorporates is in force.

**Restriction — limits of authority**

(2) For greater certainty, an incorporated law applies only to the extent that it is within the limits of federal constitutional authority.

### 6 Incorporation of procedural matters

(1) Unless otherwise provided and subject to any adaptations set out in sections 11 to 43, the following are to be carried out in accordance with the laws of Saskatchewan, whether or not those laws have been set out in Schedule 3:

- (a) the enforcement of incorporated laws;

- (b) the prosecution of an offence, or any other proceedings, in relation to the contravention of an incorporated law;

- (c) the review or appeal of an action or decision that is taken, or of a failure to take an action that could have been taken, under an incorporated law; and

- (d) any requirements for notice or service in relation to an action that is to be taken under an incorporated law.

**Related powers**

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person or body that has a power, duty or function under a law of Saskatchewan has the same power, duty or function in respect of any actions that are taken under that subsection.

### 7 Offences and penalties

(1) If contravention of a law of Saskatchewan that is incorporated in these Regulations is an offence under the laws of Saskatchewan, contravention of the incorporated law is also an offence and is subject to the same penalties as under the laws of Saskatchewan.

**Violations and administrative monetary penalties**

(2) If contravention of a law of Saskatchewan that is incorporated in these Regulations is a violation under the laws of Saskatchewan, contravention of the incorporated law is also a violation and is subject to the same administrative monetary penalties as under the laws of Saskatchewan.

### 8 Financial requirements under lease

If the incorporated laws require a cash deposit or other financial security to be given, those requirements do not displace, but instead apply in addition to, the requirements of any lease of the project lands in relation to cash deposits or other financial security.

## Inapplicable Federal Regulations

### 9 Exclusion

The *Indian Reserve Waste Disposal Regulations* do not apply to the project.

## Transitional Provision

### 10 Survival of rights

Any lease, permit, authorization, order or exemption – including any amendment to one – that is issued by a provincial official in relation to the project before the coming into force of these Regulations is considered to have been issued under these Regulations and to be valid for the purposes of these Regulations.

## General Adaptations to Incorporated Laws

### 11 Statutes and regulations of Saskatchewan

Unless otherwise indicated, the statutes and regulations referred to in sections 16 to 43 are statutes and regulations of Saskatchewan.

### 12 Reference to Crown

For greater certainty, in the incorporated laws,

- (a) “Crown” does not include Her Majesty in right of Canada;

- (b) “Crown lands” or “Crown mineral lands” do not include the project lands; and

- (c) a “Crown disposition” does not include a disposition by Her Majesty in right of Canada.

### 13 Interpretation of incorporated laws

(1) Incorporated laws are to be read without reference to any of the following:

- (a) spent provisions and provisions making consequential amendments to other enactments that are not incorporated laws;

- (b) provisions appointing a person, providing for the remuneration of a person, or establishing or continuing a provincial body, program, fund or registry;

- (c) provisions relating to the internal management of a provincial body;

- (d) provisions requiring or authorizing monies to be paid from the General Revenue Fund of Saskatchewan or from other funds administered by Saskatchewan;

- (e) provisions authorizing the Lieutenant-Governor in Council, a Minister or a provincial body to make regulations of general application except to the extent required to make the regulations set out in Schedule 3;

- (f) provisions authorizing any person, provincial official or provincial body to expropriate any interest in lands; and

- (g) provisions authorizing or imposing a tax or granting or authorizing a tax credit.

**Interpretation of incorporated laws**

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(b),

- (a) a person who is appointed to a position under a law of Saskatchewan incorporated by reference in these Regulations is considered to have been appointed to the same position for the purposes of these Regulations for as long as that person remains in that position under the law of Saskatchewan; and

- (b) a provincial body, program, fund or registry that is established or continued under a law of Saskatchewan incorporated by reference in these Regulations is considered to have been established or continued for the purposes of these Regulations.

**Specified person, official or body**

(3) For greater certainty, a person, provincial official or provincial body that has a power, duty or function under a law of Saskatchewan incorporated by reference in these Regulations has the same power, duty or function under these Regulations, subject to the adaptations set out in sections 16 to 43.

**Interpretation of incorporated laws**

(4) For greater certainty, if a law of Saskatchewan is adapted by these Regulations, a reference to that law in an incorporated law, or in any notice, form, instrument or other document issued under an incorporated law, is to be read as a reference to that law as adapted by these Regulations.

### 14 Limitation on searches and inspections

A power to search or make inspections under an incorporated law, including the power to enter a place, does not include a power to enter or search, or to inspect anything in, a federal government office, without the consent of the person who is or appears to be in charge of that office.

### 15 Limitation on production of documents

A power to seize, remove or compel the production of documents under an incorporated law does not include a power to seize, remove or compel the production of a document in the possession of the federal government, without the consent of the person in possession of the document.

## Adaptations to Incorporated Laws

### *The Electrical Inspection Act, 1993*

### 16 Adaptation to subsections 19(2), 21(3), etc.

In subsections 19(2), 21(3), 23(1) and (2), paragraph 26(1)(b) and subsection 26(3) of *The Electrical Inspection Act, 1993*, a reference to “owner” is to be read as a reference to “occupant”.

### *The Environmental Assessment Act*

### 17 Adaptation to paragraph 7.4(c), section 12, etc.

In paragraph 7.4(c), the portion of section 12 before paragraph (a), paragraph 15(2)(c) and the portion of subsection 23(1) after paragraph (b) of the *The Environmental Assessment Act*, a reference to “person” or “persons”, as the case may be, is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada.

### *The Environmental Management and Protection Act, 2010*

### 18 Adaptation to subsection 13(2)

In subsection 13(2) of the *The Environmental Management and Protection Act, 2010*, a reference to “owner” is to be read as a reference to Her Majesty in right of Canada and the Muskowekwan First Nation.

### 19 Adaptation to subsection 34(2)

(1) Subsection 34(2) of the Act is to be read as follows:

**Adaptation to subsection 34(4)**

(2) In subsection 34(4) of the Act, the reference to “subsection (2)” is to be read as a reference to “clause (2)(a)”.

### 20 Adaptation to paragraph 50(1)(a)

Paragraph 50(1)(a) of the Act is to be read as follows:

### *The Environmental Management and Protection (Saskatchewan Environmental Code Adoption) Regulations*

### 21 Adaptation to paragraph 1-7(1)(a)

(1) In paragraph 1-7(1)(a) of Chapter B.1.1 of the appendix to the *The Environmental Management and Protection (Saskatchewan Environmental Code Adoption) Regulations*, a reference to “owner” is to be read as a reference to Her Majesty in right of Canada and the Muskowekwan First Nation.

**Adaptation to paragraph 1-7(2)(a)**

(2) In paragraph 1-7(2)(a) of Chapter B.1.1 of the appendix to the Regulations, a reference to “owner of adjacent land” is to be read as a reference to Her Majesty in right of Canada and the Muskowekwan First Nation.

### 22 Adaptation to paragraph 1-8(2)(a)

In paragraph 1-8(2)(a) of Part 1 of Chapter B.1.2 of the appendix to the Regulations, a reference to “owner” is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada and the Muskowekwan First Nation.

### 23 Adaptation to paragraphs 3-2(a) and 3-3(b)

In paragraphs 3-2(a) and 3-3(b) of Part 3 of Chapter C.3.1 of the appendix to the Regulations, a reference to “landowner” is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada and the Muskowekwan First Nation.

### *The Gas Inspection Act, 1993*

### 24 Adaptation to paragraphs 11(1)(a), (b), etc.

In paragraphs 11(1)(a) and (b), the portion of subsection 11(2) before paragraph (a) and the portion of paragraph 25(1)(b) before subparagraph (i) of *The Gas Inspection Act, 1993*, a reference to “owner” is to be read as a reference to “occupant”.

### 25 Adaptation to subsection 25(3)

In subsection 25(3) of the Act, a reference to “owner” is to be read to include the occupant.

### *The Ground Water Regulations*

### 26 Adaptation to subsection 26(1)

In subsection 26(1) of *The Ground Water Regulations*, a reference to “landowner” is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada.

### *The Hazardous Substances and Waste Dangerous Goods Regulations*

### 27 Adaptation to subparagraph 15(1)(b)(i)

In subparagraph 15(1)(b)(i) of the *The Hazardous Substances and Waste Dangerous Goods Regulations*, the reference to the ““National Fire Code of Canada, 1990”, as revised, amended or substituted at the date of the coming into force of this subclause” is to be read as a reference to the ““National Fire Code of Canada, 2010”, as amended from time to time”.

### *The Oil and Gas Conservation Act*

### 28 Adaptation to subsection 17.041(2)

(1) In subsection 17.041(2) of *The Oil and Gas Conservation Act*, a reference to “owner” is to be read to include Her Majesty in Right of Canada.

**Adaptation to subsection 17.041(6)**

(2) The portion of subsection 17.041(6) of the Act before paragraph (a) is to be read as follows:

### *The Oil and Gas Conservation Regulations, 2012*

### 29 Adaptation to paragraph 2(bb)

In the definition **person** in paragraph 2(bb) of *The Oil and Gas Conservation Regulations, 2012*, a reference to “government” is to be read to exclude the Government of Canada.

### 30 Adaptation to subparagraphs 39(1)(b)(i) and (ii), etc.

In subparagraphs 39(1)(b)(i) and (ii) and paragraphs 53(1)(b) and 55(3)(e) of the Regulations, a reference to “owner” is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada.

### *The Pipelines Regulations, 2000*

### 31 Adaptation to paragraph 4(1)(g)

In paragraph 4(1)(g) of *The Pipelines Regulations, 2000*, a reference to “surface landowners” is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada.

### *The Railway Act*

### 32 Adaptation to paragraph 22.1(7)(b)

In paragraph 22.1(7)(b) of *The Railway Act*, a reference to “municipality” is to be read as a reference to the “Muskowekwan First Nation”.

### 33 Adaptation to subsection 22.2(1)

(1) Subsection 22.2(1) of the Act is to be read as follows:

**Adaptation to subsection 22.2(2)**

(2) Subsection 22.2(2) of the Act is to be read as follows:

**Adaptation to paragraphs 22.2(6)(a) and (b)**

(3) Paragraphs 22.2(6)(a) and (b) of the Act are to be read as follows:

### 34 Adaptation to subsection 44(3)

Subsection 44(3) of the Act is to be read as follows:

### *The Saskatchewan Employment Act*

### 35 Adaptation to paragraph 3-1(1)(t)

The definition **owner** in paragraph 3-1(1)(t) of the *The Saskatchewan Employment Act* is to be read as follows:

### *The Seismic Exploration Regulations, 1999*

### 36 Adaptation to subsections 30(2), 34(3), etc.

In subsections 30(2), 34(3), 38(2) and 42(4) and paragraph 45(1)(b) of *The Seismic Exploration Regulations, 1999*, a reference to “owner” is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada.

### *The Subsurface Mineral Conservation Regulations*

### 37 Adaptation to portion of section 5

(1) The portion of section 5 of *The Subsurface Mineral Conservation Regulations* before paragraph (a) is to be read as follows:

**Adaptation to paragraph 5(b)**

(2) Paragraph 5(b) of the Regulations is to be read as follows:

### *The Uniform Building and Accessibility Standards Act*

### 38 Adaptation to paragraph 2(1)(j.1)

(1) The definition **land surveyor** in paragraph 2(1)(j.1) of the *The Uniform Building and Accessibility Standards Act* is to be read as follows:

**Adaptation to paragraph 2(1)(k)**

(2) The definition **local authority** in paragraph 2(1)(k) of the Act is to be read as follows:

### 39 Adaptation to subsection 21(3)

Subsection 21(3) of the Act is to be read without reference to “and may be added to the tax payable on the property and collected in the same manner as taxes on the property.”

### *The Uniform Building and Accessibility Standards Regulations*

### 40 Adaptation to subsection 11(1)

Subsection 11(1) of *The Uniform Building and Accessibility Standards Regulations* is to be read without paragraph (c).

### *The Water Security Agency Act*

### 41 Adaptation to subsection 82(4)

Subsection 82(4) of *The Water Security Agency Act* is to be read as follows:

### 42 Adaptation to subsection 83(7)

Subsection 83(7) of the Act is to be read as follows:

### *The Waterworks and Sewage Works Regulations*

### 43 Adaptation to section 72

In section 72 of the *The Waterworks and Sewage Works Regulations*, a reference to “clause 34(2)(a)” is to be read as a reference to “subclause 34(2)(a)(i)”.

## Coming into Force

### 44 Registration

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Whereas the Muskowekwan First Nation has requested by resolution of its council that the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development recommend to the Governor in Council the making of the annexed Regulations and, in accordance with paragraph 5(1)(a) of the *First Nations Commercial and Industrial Development Act*[^], the Minister has received that resolution;



## SCHEDULE 1  Project Lands

(Section 1)

| No / N^o^ | Surface Parcel No / N^o^ de parcelle de surface | Mineral Parcel No / N^o^ de parcelle minière | Quarter / Quart | Section / Section | Township / Canton | Range / Rang | Meridian / Méridien | IR No / N^o^ de RI | OIC or MO Number / N^o^ de décret ou d’arrêté |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 110911687 | 145231736 | SE / SE | 19 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-59 | 2012-77 |
| 2 | 110855897 | 145231736 | SE / SE | 19 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-59 | 2012-77 |
| 3 | 110911700 | 145231871 | SW / SO | 19 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-59 | 2012-77 |
| 4 | 110855909 | 145231871 | SW / SO | 19 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-59 | 2012-77 |
| 5 | 110911698 | 145231871 | SW / SO | 19 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-59 | 2012-77 |
| 6 | 110856225 | 120580297 | NW / NO | 29 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-39 | 2003-141 |
| 7 | 110911755 | 149554738 | SW / SO | 29 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-39 | 2003-141 |
| 8 | 110856214 | 149554828 | SW / SO | 29 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-39 | 2003-141 |
| 9 | 110856258 | 120580332 | NW / NO | 30 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-37 | 2000-1150 |
| 10 | 110843771 | 164455904 | SE / SE | 30 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-37 | 2000-1150 |
| 11 | 110911766 | 164455915 | SE / SE | 30 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-37 | 2000-1150 |
| 12 | 110911777 | 164455892 | SE / SE | 30 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-37 | 2000-1150 |
| 13 | 110856247 | 120580354 | SW / SO | 30 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-37 | 2000-1150 |
| 14 | 110856292 | 114193357 | NE / NE | 31 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-19 | 1998-638 |
| 15 | 110856281 | 114193368 | NW / NO | 31 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-19 | 1998-638 |
| 16 | 110843782 | 120580309 | SE / SE | 31 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-37 | 2000-1150 |
| 17 | 110856270 |  | SW / SO | 31 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-47 | 2003-698 |
| 18 | 131758342 | 120580163 | NE / NE | 32 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-12 | 1997-501 |
| 19 | 131758353 | 120580163 | NE / NE | 32 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-12 | 1997-501 |
| 20 | 110856315 | 152755353 | NW / NO | 32 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-39 | 2002-425 |
| 21 | 110856304 | 120580174 | SE / SE | 32 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-12 | 1997-501 |
| 22 | 110843793 | 120580321 | SW / SO | 32 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-39 | 2002-425 |
| 23 | 110856359 | 164396548 | NE / NE | 33 | 26 | 14 | 2 | 85-12 | 1997-501 |
| 24 | 151127647 |  | SE / SE | 5 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-46 | 2009-263 |
| 25 | 114247931 | 114247942 | SE / SE | 6 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 26 | 112972541 | 114229830 | SW / SO | 6 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 27 | 112994095 | 152715179 | NE / NE | 7 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-26 | 1998-637 |
| 28 | 113002535 | 152715618 | NE / NE | 17 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-10 | 1997-112 |
| 29 | 112994398 | 152715180 | SE / SE | 18 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-26 | 1998-637 |
| 30 | 112994512 | 152716080 | NE / NE | 21 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 31 | 112994499 | 145609241 | SW / SO | 21 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-51 | 2008-1628 |
| 32 | 152310204 | 152372662 | SE / SE | 23 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-1 | 1997-112 |
| 33 | 152310204 | 152372662 | SE / SE | 23 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-1 | 1996-98 |
| 34 | 152310215 | 152372673 | SW / SO | 23 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-1 | 1997-112 |
| 35 | 164091539 | 164805756 | NE / NE | 25 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-67 | MO 2011-006 / Arrêté 2011-006 |
| 36 | 164091551 | 164805600 | NE / NE | 25 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-67 | MO 2011-006 / Arrêté 2011-006 |
| 37 | 112993296 | 114229829 | NW / NO | 27 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-20 | 1998-638 |
| 38 | 112993285 |  | SW / SO | 27 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-62 | 2009-1241 |
| 39 | 152310248 | 152372886 | NE / NE | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 40 | 152310226 | 152372886 | NE / NE | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 41 | 152310260 | 152372886 | NE / NE | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 42 | 152310237 | 152372886 | NE / NE | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 43 | 152310259 | 152372886 | NE / NE | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 44 | 152310271 | 152372886 | NE / NE | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 45 | 152310293 | 152372886 | NE / NE | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 46 | 152310282 | 152372886 | NE / NE | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 47 | 112993331 | 152372853 | NW / NO | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-2A | 1997-112 |
| 48 | 112993319 | 152372897 | SE / SE | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 49 | 112993320 | 152372909 | SW / SO | 28 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-8 | 1996-1696 |
| 50 | 112993386 | 152372921 | NE / NE | 29 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 51 | 112993375 | 152372932 | NW / NO | 29 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 52 | 112993353 | 152372943 | SE / SE | 29 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-15 | 1997-1923 |
| 53 | 112993364 | 152372998 | SW / SO | 29 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-10 | 1997-112 |
| 54 | 112993421 | 149554918 | NE / NE | 30 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-48 | 2003-698 |
| 55 | 112993410 | 152381583 | NW / NO | 30 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-10 | 1997-112 |
| 56 | 112993397 | 152381594 | SE / SE | 30 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-10 | 1997-112 |
| 57 | 152310305 | 152381606 | SW / SO | 30 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-10 | 1997-112 |
| 58 | 112993465 | 152373078 | NE / NE | 31 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-10 | 1997-112 |
| 59 | 112993454 | 152373089 | NW / NO | 31 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-10 | 1997-112 |
| 60 | 112993498 | 152373157 | NW / NO | 32 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-10 | 1997-112 |
| 61 | 112993487 | 152373168 | SW / SO | 32 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-10 | 1997-112 |
| 62 | 164091540 | 164805666 | SE / SE | 36 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-67 | MO 2011-006 / Arrêté 2011-006 |
| 63 | 164091528 | 164805767 | SE / SE | 36 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-67 | MO 2011-006 / Arrêté 2011-006 |
| 64 | 164091595 | 164805633 | SE / SE | 36 | 27 | 14 | 2 | 85-67 | MO 2011-006 / Arrêté 2011-006 |
| 65 | 112981710 | 152376677 | NW / NO | 2 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-17 | 1997-1923 |
| 66 | 112981754 | 152376688 | NE / NE | 3 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-17 | 1997-1923 |
| 67 | 112970325 | 152376699 | NW / NO | 3 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-17 | 1997-1923 |
| 68 | 112970336 | 152454203 | NW / NO | 4 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-27 | 1998-1535 |
| 69 | 112981776 | 152454214 | SW / SO | 4 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-12 | 1997-501 |
| 70 | 112981811 | 152454236 | NE / NE | 5 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-22 | 1998-637 |
| 71 | 112981798 | 152454270 | SE / SE | 5 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-24 | 1998-637 |
| 72 | 112981800 | 152454281 | SW / SO | 5 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-36 | 2000-1150 |
| 73 | 112970358 | 152454292 | NE / NE | 6 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-28 | 1999-346 |
| 74 | 112981844 | 114304609 | NW / NO | 6 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-40 | 2003-698 |
| 75 | 112981822 | 152454304 | SE / SE | 6 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-28 | 1999-346 |
| 76 | 112981833 | 149965127 | SW / SO | 6 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-40 | 2003-698 |
| 77 | 112970369 | 152454326 | NE / NE | 7 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-57 | 2009-831 |
| 78 | 112981877 | 114229841 | NW / NO | 7 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 79 | 112981855 | 152454337 | SE / SE | 7 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-28 | 1999-346 |
| 80 | 112981866 | 114229852 | SW / SO | 7 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 81 | 112973654 | 152598886 | NE / NE | 8 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-28 | 1999-346 |
| 82 | 113109814 | 152598875 | NE / NE | 8 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-28 | 1999-346 |
| 83 | 112981901 | 152598897 | NW / NO | 8 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-28 | 1999-346 |
| 84 | 112981888 | 152454371 | SE / SE | 8 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-28 | 1999-346 |
| 85 | 152376723 | 152376813 | SW / SO | 9 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-27 | 1998-1535 |
| 86 | 152376655 | 152376701 | SE / SE | 10 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-17 | 1997-1923 |
| 87 | 152376666 | 152376712 | SE / SE | 10 | 27A | 14 | 2 | 85-17 | 1997-1923 |
| 88 | 112971382 | 152143231 | NW / NO | 11 | 28 | 14 | 2 | 85-31 | 1999-346 |
| 89 | 113002007 | 152143365 | NW / NO | 14 | 28 | 14 | 2 | 85-31 | 1999-346 |
| 90 | 112990136 | 152143376 | SW / SO | 14 | 28 | 14 | 2 | 85-31 | 1999-346 |
| 91 | 113002018 | 152143387 | NE / NE | 15 | 28 | 14 | 2 | 85-31 | 1999-346 |
| 92 | 110292027 | 114145129 | SW / SO | 10 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 93 | 110292072 | 114145152 | NW / NO | 11 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 94 | 109980120 | 114193335 | NE / NE | 15 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 95 |  | 114193324 | NE / NE | 15 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 96 | 110292229 | 114193346 | NW / NO | 15 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 97 | 109933072 | 111421628 | SE / SE | 15 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-58 | 2009-622 |
| 98 | 108648872 | 114145141 | SW / SO | 15 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 99 | 110292218 | 114145141 | SW / SO | 15 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-21 | 1998-638 |
| 100 | 110241267 | 120851298 | SE / SE | 24 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-59 | 2012-77 |
| 101 | 110241357 | 120933514 | NE / NE | 26 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-29 | 1999-346 |
| 102 | 110241380 |  | NE / NE | 27 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-52 | 2005-414 |
| 103 | 108648962 |  | NW / NO | 27 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-52 | 2005-414 |
| 104 | 110241379 |  | NW / NO | 27 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-52 | 2005-414 |
| 105 | 110241414 | 120850905 | NE / NE | 28 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-3 | 1996-925 |
| 106 | 110241560 | 145369132 | NE / NE | 33 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-3 | 1996-925 |
| 107 |  | 145369176 | NE / NE | 33 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-3 | 1996-925 |
| 108 | 110241548 | 145369187 | SE / SE | 33 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-3 | 1996-925 |
| 109 | 110241593 | 120851119 | NE / NE | 34 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-5 | 1996-1696 |
| 110 | 108649020 | 165300386 | NW / NO | 34 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-25 | 1998-1535 |
| 111 | 110341033 | 165300397 | NW / NO | 34 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-25 | 1998-1535 |
| 112 | 110241627 | 120851377 | NE / NE | 35 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-29 | 1999-0346 |
| 113 | 108649031 | 145369222 | NW / NO | 35 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-60 | 2010-490 |
| 114 | 110341044 | 145369233 | NW / NO | 35 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-60 | 2010-490 |
| 115 |  | 145369244 | NW / NO | 35 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-60 | 2010-490 |
| 116 | 110241650 | 120851388 | NE / NE | 36 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-33 | 1999-1134 |
| 117 | 110341055 | 152755364 | NW / NO | 36 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-39 | 2002-425 |
| 118 | 110241638 | 120851366 | SE / SE | 36 | 26 | 15 | 2 | 85-27 | 1998-1535 |
| 119 | 112986265 | 152397579 | NE / NE | 20 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-30 | 1998-1535 |
| 120 | 112986232 | 152397580 | SE / SE | 20 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-30 | 1998-1535 |
| 121 | 152414670 | 152397636 | NW / NO | 21 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-34 | 2000-1150 |
| 122 | 112986287 | 152397647 | SW / SO | 21 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-34 | 2000-1150 |
| 123 | 112973362 | 152397658 | NE / NE | 22 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-4 | 1996-925 |
| 124 | 113109791 | 164805969 | SE / SE | 22 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-4 | 1996-925 |
|  | Except those school lands including mines and minerals shown as Lot 1 Plan 102664 C.L.S.R. 102208621 S.L.S.D. within SE-22-27-15-2 / Sauf les terres de l’école — incluant les mines et minéraux — représentées comme le lot 1 dans le plan 102664 C.L.S.R. 102208621 S.L.S.D. dans SE-22-27-15-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 125 | 112971461 | 164805970 | SE / SE | 22 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-4 | 1996-925 |
| 126 | 112986344 | 152397681 | NE / NE | 23 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-11 | 1997-112 |
| 127 | 112986333 | 152397692 | SE / SE | 23 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-11 | 1997-112 |
| 128 | 112973597 | 152397704 | SW / SO | 23 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-4 | 1996-925 |
|  | Except Mines and Minerals under Parcel A shown on Plan 62H04156 S.L.S.D. and Plan 64942 C.L.S.R. within SW-23-27-15-2 / Sauf les mines et minéraux dans la parcelle A représentée sur le plan 62H04156 S.L.S.D. et le plan 64942 C.L.S.R. dans SO-23-27-15-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 129 | 112986467 | 152397715 | NE / NE | 26 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-9 | 1996-1696 |
| 130 | 112986456 | 152397726 | NW / NO | 26 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-9 | 1996-1696 |
| 131 | 153155651 | 152397737 | SE / SE | 26 | 27 | 15 | 2 | 85-9 | 1996-1696 |
| 132 | 112980405 | 152247911 | NE / NE | 1 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-38 | 2000-1150 |
| 133 | 112980393 | 152247922 | NW / NO | 1 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-38 | 2000-1150 |
| 134 | 112970189 | 152247933 | SE / SE | 1 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-29 | 1996-0346 |
| 135 | 112980382 | 152247955 | SW / SO | 1 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-41 | 2001-2328 |
| 136 | 135887439 | 135811537 | NE / NE | 2 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-5 | 1996-1696 |
| 137 | 135887383 | 135887394 | NE / NE | 2 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-61 | 2009-1761 |
| 138 | 112980427 | 152248002 | NW / NO | 2 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-25 | 1998-1535 |
| 139 | 112980461 | 152248024 | NE / NE | 3 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-25 | 1998-1535 |
| 140 | 112980450 | 114304654 | NW / NO | 3 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-42 | 2003-698 |
| 141 | 112980449 | 152248035 | SE / SE | 3 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-25 | 1998-1535 |
| 142 | 112970202 | 149965206 | SW / SO | 3 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-40 | 2003-698 |
| 143 | 112980483 | 152248057 | NW / NO | 4 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-7 | 1996-1696 |
| 144 | 112979256 | 152248327 | NE / NE | 8 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-32 | 1998-1716 |
| 145 | 112979245 | 165210487 | NW / NO | 8 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-32 | 1998-1716 |
| 146 | 113109577 | 165210498 | NW / NO | 8 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-32 | 1998-1716 |
| 147 | 152248259 | 152755342 | SE / SE | 8 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-44 | 2002-425 |
| 148 | 112979290 | 149965026 | NE / NE | 9 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-42 | 2003-698 |
| 149 | 113109601 | 165210588 | NW / NO | 9 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-35 | 1999-1675 |
| 150 | 112979289 | 165210599 | NW / NO | 9 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-35 | 1999-1675 |
| 151 | 112979278 | 152248068 | SW / SO | 9 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-7 | 1996-1696 |
| 152 | 152248394 | 152248406 | NE / NE | 10 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-5 | 1996-1696 |
| 153 | 112979324 | 152248439 | NW / NO | 10 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-16 | 1997-1923 |
| 154 | 164196344 | 152248417 | SE / SE | 10 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-5 | 1996-1696 |
| 155 | 164196355 | 152248417 | SE / SE | 10 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-5 | 1996-1696 |
| 156 | 152248451 | 152248417 | SE / SE | 10 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-5 | 1996-1696 |
| 157 | 152248428 | 152248440 | SW / SO | 10 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-16 | 1997-1923 |
| 158 | 164196388 | 152248440 | SW / SO | 10 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-16 | 1997-1923 |
| 159 | 152307682 | 165210612 | NE / NE | 11 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-38 | 2000-1150 |
| 160 | 152307671 | 165210623 | NE / NE | 11 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-38 | 2000-1150 |
| 161 | 152248495 | 152248507 | NW / NO | 11 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-5 | 1996-1696 |
| 162 | 112979335 | 149965059 | SE / SE | 11 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-40 | 2003-698 |
| 163 | 112979346 | 152248518 | SW / SO | 11 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-5 | 1996-1696 |
| 164 | 152248529 | 152248530 | NE / NE | 12 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-23 | 1999-785 |
| 165 | 112979380 | 154327136 | NW / NO | 12 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-54 | 2007-568 |
| 166 | 113109409 | 154327125 | NW / NO | 12 | 27A | 15 | 2 | 85-54 | 2007-568 |
| 167 | 112983981 | 152250803 | NE / NE | 3 | 28 | 15 | 2 | 85-66 | 2010-280 |
| 168 | 112984207 | 152251062 | NE / NE | 9 | 28 | 15 | 2 | 85-66 | 2010-280 |
| 169 | 112984184 | 152251084 | SE / SE | 9 | 28 | 15 | 2 | 85-66 | 2010-280 |
| 170 | 112984195 | 152251095 | SW / SO | 9 | 28 | 15 | 2 | 85-66 | 2010-280 |
| 171 | 112984230 | 152251107 | NE / NE | 10 | 28 | 15 | 2 | 85-66 | 2010-280 |
| 172 | 112970594 | 152251118 | NW / NO | 10 | 28 | 15 | 2 | 85-66 | 2010-280 |
| 173 | 112984229 | 152251130 | SW / SO | 10 | 28 | 15 | 2 | 85-66 | 2010-280 |
| 174 | 147730002 | 147730013 | NW / NO | 1 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-53 | 2006-262 |
| 175 | 153059395 | 153088511 | NW / NO | 1 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-53 | 2006-262 |
| 176 | 153059407 | 153088522 | NW / NO | 1 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-53 | 2006-262 |
| 177 | 147730024 | 147730035 | NW / NO | 1 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-53 | 2006-262 |
| 178 | 153059429 | 153088544 | NW / NO | 1 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-53 | 2006-262 |
| 179 | 153059418 | 153088533 | NW / NO | 1 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-53 | 2006-262 |
| 180 | 147730046 | 147730057 | NW / NO | 1 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-53 | 2006-262 |
| 181 | 112998527 | 153086665 | SW / SO | 1 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 182 | 113108745 | 153086676 | SW / SO | 1 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 183 | 113003031 | 152224770 | SE / SE | 2 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 184 | 112998561 | 152224781 | SW / SO | 2 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 185 | 113003053 | 152224860 | NW / NO | 7 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-13 | 1997-112 |
| 186 | 112996154 | 152225074 | NE / NE | 17 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-13 | 1997-112 |
| 187 | 112996143 | 152225085 | NW / NO | 17 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-13 | 1997-112 |
| 188 | 112996121 | 152225096 | SE / SE | 17 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-13 | 1997-112 |
| 189 | 112996132 | 152225108 | SW / SO | 17 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-13 | 1997-112 |
| 190 | 112996165 | 165150143 | SE / SE | 18 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-13 | 1997-112 |
| 191 | 113108790 | 165150154 | SE / SE | 18 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-13 | 1997-112 |
| 192 | 152334862 | 165150200 | NW / NO | 22 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-14 | 1997-1923 |
| 193 | 152334873 | 165150211 | NW / NO | 22 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-14 | 1997-1923 |
| 194 | 164199527 | 165150211 | NW / NO | 22 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-14 | 1997-1923 |
| 195 | 112996323 | 152225265 | SE / SE | 22 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-14 | 1997-1923 |
| 196 | 112996334 | 152225287 | SW / SO | 22 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-14 | 1997-1923 |
| 197 | 120472286 | 114247953 | NE / NE | 23 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-18 | 1998-638 |
| 198 | 112996367 | 120472231 | SE / SE | 23 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-18 | 1998-638 |
| 199 | 112996378 | 152225276 | SW / SO | 23 | 27 | 16 | 2 | 85-14 | 1997-1923 |
| 200 | 112979953 | 165085678 | NE / NE | 10 | 27A | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 201 | 112979942 | 165085689 | SE / SE | 10 | 27A | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 202 | 112979997 | 152267340 | NE / NE | 11 | 27A | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 203 | 112979986 | 152267351 | NW / NO | 11 | 27A | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 204 | 112979964 | 165085724 | SE / SE | 11 | 27A | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 205 | 113109465 | 165085746 | SE / SE | 11 | 27A | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 206 | 113109454 | 165085735 | SE / SE | 11 | 27A | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |
| 207 | 112979975 | 152267373 | SW / SO | 11 | 27A | 16 | 2 | 85-6 | 1996-1696 |


## SCHEDULE 2  Entitlement Lands

(Section 1)

| No / N^O^ | Quarter / Quart | Section / Section | Township / Canton | Range / Rang | Meridian / Méridien |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | NE / NE | 18 | 27 | 13 | 2 |
| 2 | NW / NO | 18 | 27 | 13 | 2 |
| 3 | NW / NO | 19 | 27 | 13 | 2 |
| 4 | SE / SE | 19 | 27 | 13 | 2 |
| 5 | SW / SO | 19 | 27 | 13 | 2 |
| 6 | SW / SO | 30 | 27 | 13 | 2 |
| 7 | NW / NO | 2 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 8 | NE / NE | 3 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 9 | NW / NO | 3 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 10 | NE / NE | 4 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 11 | NW / NO | 4 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 12 | SE / SE | 4 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 13 | NE / NE | 5 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 14 | NW / NO | 5 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 15 | NW / NO | 7 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 16 | SE / SE | 7 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 17 | SW / SO | 7 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 18 | NE / NE | 8 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 19 | NW / NO | 8 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 20 | SE / SE | 8 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 21 | SW / SO | 8 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 22 | NE / NE | 9 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 23 | NW / NO | 9 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 24 | SE / SE | 9 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 25 | SE / SE | 10 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 26 | NW / NO | 14 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 27 | SE / SE | 15 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 28 | NE / NE | 16 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 29 | NW / NO | 16 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 30 | NW / NO | 17 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 31 | SE / SE | 17 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 32 | SW / SO | 17 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 33 | NE / NE | 18 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 34 | NW / NO | 18 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 35 | SW / SO | 18 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 36 | NE / NE | 19 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 37 | NW / NO | 19 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 38 | SE / SE | 19 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 39 | SW / SO | 19 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 40 | NE / NE | 20 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 41 | NW / NO | 20 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 42 | SE / SE | 20 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 43 | SW / SO | 20 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 44 | NW / NO | 21 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 45 | SE / SE | 21 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 46 | SE / SE | 22 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 47 | SW / SO | 22 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 48 | NE / NE | 24 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 49 | NW / NO | 24 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 50 | SW / SO | 25 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 51 | NW / NO | 26 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 52 | SE / SE | 26 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 53 | SW / SO | 26 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 54 | SE / SE | 31 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 55 | SW / SO | 31 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 56 | SE / SE | 32 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 57 | NE / NE | 34 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 58 | SE / SE | 34 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 59 | SW / SO | 34 | 27 | 14 | 2 |
| 60 | SW / SO | 20 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 61 | NE / NE | 21 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 62 | SE / SE | 21 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 63 | NW / NO | 22 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 64 | SW / SO | 22 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 65 | NW / NO | 23 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 66 | NE / NE | 25 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 67 | NW / NO | 25 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 68 | SE / SE | 25 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 69 | SW / SO | 25 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 70 | SW / SO | 26 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 71 | NE / NE | 27 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 72 | NW / NO | 27 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 73 | SE / SE | 27 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 74 | SW / SO | 27 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 75 | NE / NE | 34 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 76 | NW / NO | 34 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 77 | SE / SE | 34 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 78 | SW / SO | 34 | 27 | 15 | 2 |
| 79 | SE / SE | 1 | 28 | 15 | 2 |
| 80 | SW / SO | 1 | 28 | 15 | 2 |
| 81 | SE / SE | 2 | 28 | 15 | 2 |
| 82 | SW / SO | 2 | 28 | 15 | 2 |


## SCHEDULE 3  Incorporated Laws

(Section 1, subsection 6(1) and paragraph 13(1)(e))
