---
long_title: "Wheat and Barley Research, Market Development and Technical Assistance Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2012-152"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Wheat and Barley Research, Market Development and Technical Assistance Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

In these Regulations, **Commission** means the Alberta Barley Commission.

## Application

### 2

These Regulations apply to wheat and barley grown in Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta and the Peace River District of British Columbia.

## Responsible Agency

### 3

The Commission is the agency to which amounts are to be remitted under section 83.1 of the *Canada Grain Act*.

## Deductions

### 4

(1) Any person required to issue a cash purchase ticket under the Act must collect a deduction of the following amounts:

- (a) $0.48 per tonne for wheat; and

- (b) $0.56 per tonne for barley except in the case of barley grown in Alberta for which the amount to be collected is $0.04 per tonne.

(2) The amounts that are deducted must be remitted to the Commission within 30 days from the end of the month in which they are collected along with a report that indicates the amounts deducted in respect of wheat and barley from each producer.

## Refunds of Amounts Deducted

### 5

(1) Any producer may make an application for a refund from the Commission of any amount that was deducted under subsection 4(1).

(2) The application must be in the appropriate form supplied by the Commission, be signed and dated and contain the producer’s name, mailing address and telephone number.

(3) The application may be made once every crop year and must be submitted by July 31 of that crop year.

(4) The Commission must remit the refund not later than 90 days after the end of the crop year.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2013-123, s. 2

</details>

## Annual Reports

### 6

The Commission must provide an annual report to the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food not later than 120 days after the end of the crop year that contains the following information in respect of wheat and of barley:

- (a) the total amounts of deductions;

- (b) the total amounts paid for research activities into new and improved varieties of wheat and of barley, the recipients of the funds and a description of those activities;

- (c) the total amounts paid for the promotion of the marketing and use of wheat and of barley, the recipients of the funds and a description of those activities;

- (d) the total amounts paid for technical assistance relating to the use of wheat and of barley, the recipients of the funds and a description of the technical assistance activities;

- (e) the total amounts of refunds; and

- (f) details of the administrative costs.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2013-123, s. 3

</details>

## Coming into Force

### 7

These Regulations come into force on August 1, 2012.

> His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 83.2[^] of the *Canada Grain Act*[^], makes the annexed *Regulations Respecting Research, Market Development and Technical Assistance (Wheat and Barley)*.

