---
long_title: "Pickering Airport Site Zoning Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2004-212"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Pickering Airport Site Zoning Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

(1) The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**airport** means the Pickering airport site in the Province of Ontario being partly in the Town of Markham, Regional Municipality of York, and partly in the City of Pickering and Township of Uxbridge, Regional Municipality of Durham. (**aéroport**)

**airport reference point** means the point described in Part 1 of the schedule. (**point de référence de l’aéroport**)

**approach surfaces** means the imaginary inclined surfaces that extend upward and outward from each end of a strip surface, which surfaces are described as take-off/approach surfaces in Part 2 of the schedule. (**surfaces d’approche**)

**bird hazard zone** means the area in the immediate vicinity of the airport as described in Part 7 of the schedule. (**zone de péril aviaire**)

**outer limit** means the limit of the area, as described in Part 6 of the schedule, covered by the approach surfaces, bird hazard zone, outer surface, strip surface and transitional surfaces. (**limite extérieure**)

**outer surface** means the imaginary surface located above and in the immediate vicinity of the airport, which surface is described in Part 3 of the schedule. (**surface extérieure**)

**strip surface** means the portion of a landing area of the airport, including a proposed runway, prepared for the take-off and landing of aircraft in a particular direction, which portion is described in Part 4 of the schedule. (**surface de bande**)

**transitional surfaces** means the imaginary inclined surfaces that extend upward and outward from the lateral limits of a strip surface and the approach surfaces, which surfaces are described in Part 5 of the schedule. (**surfaces de transition**)

(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, the assigned elevation of the airport reference point is 255.000 m above sea level, Canadian Geodetic Vertical Datum — CGVD28, 1978 Adjustment.

## Application

### 2

These Regulations apply in respect of all land, including public road allowances, that is adjacent to or in the vicinity of the airport, which land is described in Part 6 of the schedule.

## Building Restrictions

### 3

No person shall erect or construct, on land in respect of which these Regulations apply, a building, structure or object, or an addition to an existing building, structure or object, the highest point of which would exceed in elevation at the location of that point

- (a) the approach surfaces;

- (b) the outer surface;

- (c) the transitional surfaces; or

- (d) the strip surface.

## Aeronautical Facilities

### 4

No owner or lessee of land within the outer surface shall permit any part of that land to be used or developed in a manner that causes interference with any signal or communication to and from an aircraft or any facility used to provide services relating to aeronautics.

## Natural Growth

### 5

No owner or lessee of land in respect of which these Regulations apply shall permit an object of natural growth that is on the land to grow to a height that exceeds in elevation at the location of the object any surface referred to in section 3.

## Bird Hazard

### 6

No owner or lessee of land within the limits of the bird hazard zone shall permit any part of that land to be used for activities or uses attracting birds that create a hazard to aviation safety and are therefore incompatible with the safe operation of the airport or aircraft.

## Coming into Force

### 7

These Regulations come into force on the day on which the requirements prescribed in subsection 5.6(2) of the *Aeronautics Act* are met.

> Whereas, pursuant to subsection 5.5(1)[^] of the *Aeronautics Act*, a copy of the proposed *Pickering Airport Site Zoning Regulations*, substantially in the annexed form, was published in two successive issues of the *Canada Gazette*, Part I, on April 12 and April 19, 2003, and in two successive issues of the *Toronto Star*, on April 14 and April 15, 2003, and *L’Express*, on April 15 and April 22, 2003, and a reasonable opportunity was thereby afforded to interested persons to make representations to the Minister of Transport with respect to the proposed Regulations;



## SCHEDULE

(Sections 1 and 2)

### Description of the Airport Reference Point

### Description of the Approach Surfaces

### Description of the Outer Surface

### Description of the Outer Surface Boundary

### Description of the Strip Surfaces

### Description of the Transitional Surfaces

### Description of the Outer Limit of the Land in Respect of Which These Regulations Apply

### Description of the Bird Hazard Zone

### Description of the Outer Limit of the Bird Hazard Zone
