---
long_title: "Bank for International Settlements Privileges and Immunities Order"
instrument_number: "SOR/2024-71"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Bank for International Settlements Privileges and Immunities Order


## Definitions

### 1 Definitions

*(1)* The following definitions apply in this Order.

**Agreement** means the Agreement between the Government of Canada and the Bank for International Settlements on the Establishment of an Office of the Bank in Canada for the Operation of the BIS Innovation Hub Toronto Centre, done at Ottawa on January 31, 2024. (**Accord**)

**Centre** has the same meaning asssigned by the definition **BISIH Toronto Centre** in sub-paragraph (b) of Article 1 of the Agreement. (**Centre**)

**Convention** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the *Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act*. (**Convention**)

**official activities** has the same meaning assigned by the definition **Official Activities** in sub-paragraph (j) of Article 1 of the Agreement. (**activités officielles**)

**Organization** has the same meaning assigned by the definition **BIS** in sub-paragraph (a) of Article 1 of the Agreement. (**Organisation**)

## Privileges and Immunities

### 2 Legal capacities, privileges and immunities

The Organization has in Canada, while carrying out its official activities, the legal capacities of a body corporate and, to the extent specified in Articles 2 and 4 to 10 of the Agreement, the privileges and immunities set out in Articles II and III of the Convention.

### 3 Members and representatives

(1) Members of the Organization’s Board of Directors and representatives of the central banks and monetary authorities that are members of the Organization referred to in Article 11 of the Agreement have in Canada, while carrying out official activities and to the extent specified in that Article, the privileges and immunities set out in Article IV of the Convention.

**General Manager and Deputy General Manager**

(2) The General Manager of the Organization and the Deputy General Manager of the Organization have in Canada, while carrying out official activities, to the extent specified in sub-paragraphs (1)(a), (c) and (d) and paragraph 2 of Article 11 of the Agreement, the privileges and immunities set out in Article V of the Convention.

### 4 Centre officials

Officials of the Centre referred to in paragraph (e) of Article 1 of the Agreement have in Canada, while carrying out official activities and to the extent specified in sub-paragraphs (1)(a) to (c) and (e) to (h) and paragraph 2 of Article 14 of the Agreement, the privileges and immunities set out in Article V of the Convention.

### 5 Officials of the Organization

Officials of the Organization referred to in sub-paragraph (d) of Article 1 of the Agreement have in Canada, while carrying out official activities and to the extent set out in subparagraphs (1)(a), (b) and (d) and paragraph 2 of Article 13 of the Agreement, the privileges and immunities set out in Article V of the Convention.

### 6 Experts

Experts referred to in sub-paragraph (f) of Article 1 of the Agreement that perform missions for the Organization have in Canada, to the extent specified in Article 15 of the Agreement, the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI of the Convention.

### 7 Not for personal benefit

The privileges and immunities described in sections 2 to 6 are not granted for the personal benefit of the member, representative, manager, official or expert, as the case may be, but rather are granted so that they may independently carry out official activities in connection with the Organization and in the interests of the Organization.

### 8 Traffic accident or offence

For greater certainty, nothing in this Order exempts any person who has been conferred immunity by this Order from liability arising from a traffic accident or a traffic offence imposed by any law in Canada to the extent specified in Article 17 of the Agreement.

### 9 Taxes or duties

This Order does not exempt a Canadian citizen or permanent resident from liability for any taxes or duties imposed by any law in Canada.

## Coming into Force

### 10 Registration

This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, makes the annexed *Bank for International Settlements Privileges and Immunities Order* under section 5[^] and subsection 13(1)[^] of the *Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act*[^].

