---
long_title: "North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Privileges and Immunities Order"
instrument_number: "SOR/2024-126"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Privileges and Immunities Order


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

(1) The following definitions apply in this Order.

**international civilian personnel**  means personnel — recruited from among the nationals of a party to the North Atlantic Treaty — who are appointed to the Organisation, assigned to international posts appearing on the approved establishment of a subsidiary body of the Organisation and subject to the Organisation’s *Civilian Personnel Regulations*, as amended from time to time. (**personnel civil international**)

**military personnel** means military personnel of a force of a party to the North Atlantic Treaty, including its civilian component, who are attached for administrative service with the Organisation.  (**personnel militaire**)

**Organisation** means the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and subsidiary bodies set up by the Council under Article 9 of the North Atlantic Treaty, other than military headquarters.  (**Organisation**)

**Status of Forces Agreement** means the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty regarding the Status of their Forces, done at London on June 19, 1951. (**Convention sur le statut des forces**)

**temporary personnel** means personnel who are recruited from among the nationals of a party to the North Atlantic Treaty to satisfy temporary requirements of the Organisation and who are subject to the Organisation’s *Civilian Personnel Regulations*, as amended from time to time. (**personnel temporaire**)

**Interpretation — **military personnel****

(2) For the purposes of the definition **military personnel** in subsection (1), **force** and **civilian component** have, respectively, the same meaning as in sub-paragraphs 1(a) and (b) of Article I of the Status of Forces Agreement.

## Rights, Privileges and Immunities

### 2 Legal capacity

(1) The Organisation has the legal capacity of a corporation.

**Privileges and immunities**

(2) The Organisation has the privileges and immunities set out in Articles 5 to 11 of the Ottawa Agreement.

### 3 Foreign representatives of Member States

(1) Foreign representatives of Member States of the Organisation have, to the extent required for the discharge of their duties, the privileges and immunities set out in Article 13 of the Ottawa Agreement.

**Official clerical staff**

(2) Official clerical staff accompanying a foreign representative of a Member State of the Organisation have, to the extent required for the discharge of their duties, the privileges and immunities set out in Article 14 of the Ottawa Agreement.

### 4 International civilian personnel and military personnel

(1) International civilian personnel and military personnel have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions, the privileges and immunities set out in Articles 18 and 19 of the Ottawa Agreement.

**Article 20 of Ottawa Agreement**

(2) International civilian personnel of grade G22 and above and military personnel of equivalent military rank have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions, the privileges and immunities set out in Article 20 of the Ottawa Agreement.

**Temporary personnel**

(3) Temporary personnel assigned to DIANA have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions, the privileges and immunities set out in Articles 18 and 19 of the Ottawa Agreement.

**Definition of **DIANA****

(4) For the purposes of subsection (3), **DIANA** means the Defence Innovation Accelerator for the North Atlantic, a subsidiary body of the Organisation, set up under Article 9 of the North Atlantic Treaty.

**Family members**

(5) The family members forming part of the household of the temporary personnel referred to in subsection (3), of the international civilian personnel and of the military personnel have the privileges and immunities set out in paragraphs (b) and (d) of Article 18 of the Ottawa Agreement.

**Military personnel**

(6) The privileges and immunities enjoyed by military personnel and their family members under subsections (1) and (5), respectively, do not affect the privileges and immunities enjoyed by them under the Status of Forces Agreement.

### 5 Experts on mission

(1) Experts have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions, the privileges and immunities set out in Article 21 of the Ottawa Agreement.

**Definition of **experts****

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), **experts** means experts referred to in Article 21 of the Ottawa Agreement who are nationals of a party to the North Atlantic Treaty and who are employed on missions on behalf of the Organisation.

### 6 Canadian citizens

Canadian citizens have, under this Order, only the privileges and immunities set out in Articles 19 and 23 of the Ottawa Agreement.

### 7 Interests of the Organisation

(1) The privileges and immunities granted to individuals under this Order are granted not for their personal benefit but rather in the interests of the Organisation.

**Waiving of immunity granted**

(2) In accordance with Article 22 of the Ottawa Agreement, the Organisation has the right and the duty to waive the immunity that has been granted if, in its opinion,

- (a) the immunity would impede the course of justice; and

- (b) the immunity can be waived without prejudice to the interests of the Organisation.

## Coming into Force

### 8 Registration

This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, makes the annexed *North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Privileges and Immunities Order* under section 4[^] of the *Privileges and Immunities (North Atlantic Treaty Organisation) Act*[^].

