---
long_title: "Public Service Staffing Complaints Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2006-6"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Public Service Staffing Complaints Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

(1) The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**Act** means the *Public Service Employment Act*. (**Loi**)

**contact information** means a telephone number, mailing and electronic address. (**coordonnées**)

**day** means a calendar day. (**jour**)

**Executive Director**[Repealed, SOR/2014-250, s. 2]

**intervenor** means anyone who is allowed under subsection 19(4) to intervene in the hearing of a complaint. (**intervenant**)

**party** means anyone who has a right to be heard under subsection 65(3), section 75, subsection 79(1) or section 85 of the Act. (**partie**)

**respondent** means
  - (a) the deputy head, in the case of a complaint that relates to a lay-off, revocation, appointment or proposed appointment in respect of which the Commission has authorized the deputy head under section 15 of the Act to exercise or perform any of the Commission’s powers and functions; or
  - (b) the Commission, in any other case. (**intimé**)

**signature** means a handwritten or electronic signature that consists of one or more letters, characters, numbers or other symbols in digital form and that is incorporated in, attached to or associated with an electronic document or electronic information. (**signature**)

**standardized test**[Repealed, SOR/2011-116, s. 1]

**writing** includes, with respect to a person with a disability that affects the capacity to communicate in writing, any means of communication that can be used and understood by that person and that may be retained. (**écrit**)

**Canadian Human Rights Commission**

(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, the Canadian Human Rights Commission is a participant in a proceeding in relation to a complaint if the Canadian Human Rights Commission has given notice under subsection 20(3) that it intends to make submissions regarding an issue raised by the complainant involving the interpretation or the application of the *Canadian Human Rights Act*.

**Accessibility Commissioner**

(3) For the purposes of these Regulations, the Accessibility Commissioner is a participant in a proceeding in relation to a complaint if the Accessibility Commissioner has given notice under subsection 20.1(3) that they intend to make submissions regarding an issue raised by the complainant involving the contravention of a provision of regulations made under subsection 117(1) of the *Accessible Canada Act*.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 1; SOR/2014-250, s. 2
- SOR/2022-243, s. 1

</details>

## Application

### 2 Application

These Regulations apply to all complaints made to the Board under subsection 65(1) or section 74, subsection 77(1) or section 83 of the Act.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2014-250, s. 8

</details>

## General Provisions

### 3 When notice considered received

A notice that is sent to a party, an intervenor, the Canadian Human Rights Commission or the Accessibility Commissioner is considered to have been received

- (a) if the notice is sent by electronic mail, fax, or other electronic means, on the day on which it is sent;

- (b) if it is sent by courier or delivered by hand, on the day on which it is received; or

- (c) if it is sent by mail, on the day that is six days after the date of the postmark or of the postage meter impression authorized by the Canada Post Corporation, or if both the postmark and postage meter impression appear on the envelope, on the later of the dates indicated.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2022-243, s. 2

</details>

### 4 Alternate methods of providing notices and other documents

Despite any provisions of these Regulations, the Board may, in the interest of fairness, establish alternate methods of providing notices and other documents.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2014-250, s. 8

</details>

### 5 Amendment of time

(1) The Board may extend or reduce the time to do any act or file any notice or other document in relation to a complaint.

(2) [Repealed, SOR/2022-243, s. 3]

**Determination**

(3) The Board must determine whether it is in the interest of fairness to extend or reduce the time and, if it is, the length of the extension or reduction.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 2; SOR/2014-250, s. 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 3

</details>

### 6

[Repealed, SOR/2011-116, s. 2]

### 7 Computation of time

A time period calculated under these Regulations that ends on a Saturday or a holiday is extended to end on the next day after that is not a Saturday or a holiday.

### 8 Consolidation of proceedings

To ensure the expeditious resolution of complaints, the Board may direct that proceedings be consolidated and may issue directions in respect of the conduct of the consolidated proceedings.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 3; SOR/2014-250, s. 8

</details>

### 8.1 Informal and expeditious proceeding

Proceedings before the Board may be conducted as informally and expeditiously as the circumstances and the considerations of fairness permit.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2014-250, s. 3
- SOR/2022-243, s. 4

</details>

### 8.2 Complaint considered withdrawn

The Board may, on its own initiative, send a notice of status review to each of the parties that requires them to make submissions stating the reasons why the complaint should not be considered to be withdrawn and, if there is no response within the period specified by the Board, may consider the complaint to be withdrawn.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2022-243, s. 4

</details>

### 9 Technical irregularity

No proceeding is invalid by reason only of a defect in form or a technical irregularity.

## Making a Complaint

### 10 Time for making complaint

(1) A complaint must be received by the Board no later than 15 days after

- (a) the day on which the complainant receives notice of the lay-off, revocation, appointment or proposed appointment to which the complaint relates; or

- (b) the date specified in the notice, if it is a public notice.

**Receipt of complaint**

(2) A complaint is considered to have been received by the Board

- (a) if the complaint is sent by electronic mail, fax or other electronic means, on the day on which it is sent;

- (b) if it is sent by courier, on the day on which it is sent;

- (c) if it is delivered by hand, on the day on which it is received; or

- d) if it is sent by mail, on the day that is the date of the postmark or of the postage meter impression authorized by the Canada Post Corporation, or if both the postmark and postage meter impression appear on the envelope, on the later of the dates indicated.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 4; SOR/2014-250, s. 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 5

</details>

### 11 Form and content of complaint

A complaint must be filed with the Board in writing and must include

- (a) the name and contact information of the complainant that can be disclosed to all parties;

- (b) [Repealed, SOR/2011-116, s. 5]

- (c) the name and contact information of the complainant’s authorized representative, if any;

- (d) the number or identifier, if any, of the process to which the complaint relates;

- (e) a copy of the notice of lay-off, revocation, appointment or proposed appointment to which the complaint relates;

- (f) the name of the department or agency, branch or sector involved in the process to which the complaint relates;

- (g) a reference to the provision of the Act under which the complaint is made;

- (h) a full factual description of the events, circumstances or actions giving rise to the complaint, to the extent known by the complainant;

- (i) the signature of the complainant or their authorized representative; and

- (j) the date of the complaint.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 5; SOR/2014-250, s. 7
- SOR/2022-243, s. 6

</details>

### 12 Procedure on receipt of complaint

On receiving a complaint, the Board must acknowledge its receipt and send a copy of it and all supporting documents to the respondent.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 6; SOR/2014-250, s. 7
- SOR/2022-243, s. 7

</details>

### 13 Names and addresses of parties

Within 10 days after receiving a copy of the complaint and all supporting documents, the respondent must provide the Board with the names and business addresses of the other parties, including their electronic mail addresses, if any.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 6; SOR/2014-250, s. 7
- SOR/2022-243, s. 7

</details>

### 14 Copies to be provided

On receiving the names and addresses of the other parties, the Board must send a copy of the complaint and all supporting documents to each of the other parties.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 6; SOR/2014-250, s. 7

</details>

## Alternate Dispute Resolution Processes

### Mediation

### 15 Participation in mediation

(1) The Board must schedule mediation for a complaint unless

- (a) the complainant informs the Board, no later than 25 days after the date of the letter by which the Board acknowledges receipt of the complaint, that the complainant does not wish to participate in mediation; or

- (b) the respondent informs the Board, no later than 25 days after they receive a copy of the complaint, that they do not wish to participate in mediation.

**Request to mediate**

(2) The complainant or respondent may, before the date of the hearing and with the agreement of the other party, request the Board to refer the complaint to mediation.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 7; SOR/2014-250, ss. 4(E), 7
- SOR/2022-243, s. 8

</details>

### Exchange of Information

### 16 Exchange of information

(1) To facilitate the resolution of the complaint, the complainant and respondent must, as soon as feasible after the complaint has been filed, exchange all relevant information regarding the complaint.

**Time for the exchange**

(2) The exchange of information must be completed no later than 25 days after the date of the letter by which the Board acknowledges receipt of the complaint.

**Order to exchange information**

(3) If the complainant or respondent does not complete the exchange of all relevant information as required by subsections (1) and (2), the Board may order the parties to complete the exchange within the time specified by the Board.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 8; SOR/2014-250, ss. 7, 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 9

</details>

### Order to Provide Information

### 17 Request for order to provide information

(1) If a party refuses to provide information, the complainant or respondent may, after the time provided for the exchange of information, request the Board to order that the information be provided.

**Form and content of request**

(2) The request for an order to provide information must be in writing and must include

- (a) the name and contact information of the party making the request;

- (b) the Board’s file number for the complaint to which the request relates;

- (c) a list specifying the documents or information requested;

- (d) a detailed explanation as to why each requested item is relevant to the complaint; and

- (e) the date of the request.

**Suspension of time**

(3) Any time that is specified in these Regulations in relation to a complaint, notice or document is suspended until the Board renders a decision respecting the request for an order to provide information.

**Order to provide information**

(4) The Board must order that the complainant or respondent be provided with the information if the Board determines that the information may be relevant and that its provision will not

- (a) threaten national security;

- (b) threaten any person’s safety; or

- (c) affect the validity or continued use of a standardized test, or any part of such a test, or distort the results of a standardized test by giving an unfair advantage to any individual.

**Conditions**

(5) The Board may make the order to provide information subject to any conditions that it determines are necessary, including any conditions that are necessary to prevent any of the risks referred to in paragraphs (4)(a) to (c).

**Duration of conditions**

(6) The conditions apply before and after the hearing or after any other resolution or disposition of the complaint.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 9; SOR/2014-250, s. 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 10

</details>

### Restriction on Use of Information

### 18 Use of information obtained

Any information obtained under sections 16 and 17 may be used only for purposes of the complaint.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 10(E)

</details>

## Intervenors

### 19 Application to intervene

(1) Anyone with a substantial interest in a proceeding before the Board may apply to the Board for permission to intervene in the proceeding.

**Form and content of application**

(2) The application must be in writing and must include

- (a) the name and contact information that are to be used for sending documents to the applicant;

- (b) [Repealed, SOR/2011-116, s. 11]

- (c) the name and contact information of the applicant’s authorized representative, if any;

- (d) the Board’s file number for the complaint that is the subject of the application;

- (e) the grounds for intervention and the interest of the applicant in the matter;

- (f) the contribution that the applicant expects to make if allowed to intervene;

- (g) the signature of the applicant or their authorized representative; and

- (h) the date of the application.

**Submissions**

(3) The Board must give the parties and, if they are participants, the Canadian Human Rights Commission and the Accessibility Commissioner, the opportunity to make submissions in respect of the application.

**Allowing the application**

(4) The Board may allow the applicant to intervene after considering the following factors:

- (a) whether the applicant is directly affected by the proceeding;

- (b) whether the applicant’s position is already represented in the proceeding;

- (c) whether the public interest or the interests of justice would be served by allowing the applicant to intervene; and

- (d) whether the input of the applicant would assist the Board in deciding the matter.

**Directions to intervenor**

(5) In allowing the application, the Board may issue directions regarding the role of the intervenor, including any matter relating to the procedure to be followed by the intervenor.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 11; SOR/2014-250, ss. 5(F), 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 11

</details>

## Notice to the Canadian Human Rights Commission

### 20 Notice of issue

(1) If the complainant raises an issue involving the interpretation or application of the *Canadian Human Rights Act* in a complaint made under subsection 65(1) or 77(1) of the Act, the complainant must notify in writing the Canadian Human Rights Commission under subsection 65(5) or section 78 of the Act. The notice must include

- (a) a copy of the complaint;

- (b) the name and contact information of the complainant that can be disclosed to all parties;

- (c) the name and contact information of the complainant’s authorized representative, if any;

- (d) a description of the issue involving the interpretation or the application of the *Canadian Human Rights Act* and of the alleged discriminatory practice or policy;

- (e) the prohibited ground of discrimination involved;

- (f) the corrective action sought;

- (g) the signature of the complainant or the complainant’s authorized representative; and

- (h) the date of the notice.

**Copies to be provided**

(2) The complainant must give a copy of the notice to each of the other parties, to the Board and to each of the intervenors, if any. Those copies do not need to include copies of the complaint.

**Notice of intention to make submissions**

(3) The Canadian Human Rights Commission must, no later than 15 days after receiving the notice, notify the Board whether or not it intends to make submissions regarding the issue referred to in paragraph (1)(d).

**Board to provide copies**

(4) The Board must give a copy of the notice from the Canadian Human Rights Commission to each of the parties and each of the intervenors, if any.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 12; SOR/2014-250, s. 7
- SOR/2022-243, s. 12

</details>

## Notice to the Accessibility Commissioner

### 20.1 Notice of issue

(1) If the complainant raises an issue involving the contravention of a provision of regulations made under subsection 117(1) of the *Accessible Canada Act* in a complaint made under subsection 65(1) or 77(1) of the Act, the complainant must notify in writing the Accessibility Commissioner under subsection 65(9) or section 78.1 of the Act. The notice must include

- (a) a copy of the complaint;

- (b) the name and contact information of the complainant that can be disclosed to all parties;

- (c) the name and contact information of the complainant’s authorized representative, if any;

- (d) a description of the issue;

- (e) the corrective action sought;

- (f) the signature of the complainant or their authorized representative; and

- (g) the date of the notice.

**Copy of the notice — complainant**

(2) The complainant must give a copy of the notice to each of the other parties, to the Board and to each of the intervenors, if any. Those copies do not need to include copies of the complaint.

**Intention to make submissions**

(3) The Accessibility Commissioner must, no later than 15 days after receiving the notice, notify the Board whether or not the Commissioner intends to make submissions regarding the issue referred to in paragraph (1)(d).

**Copy of the notice — Board**

(4) The Board must give a copy of the Commissioner’s notice to each of the parties and each of the intervenors, if any.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2022-243, s. 13

</details>

## Time Period for Raising Timeliness Objection

### 21 Time period

(1) If any of the following persons wishes to object on the ground that the complaint was not made within the period required under section 10, they must do so before the end of the period for exchanging information:

- (a) the respondent;

- (b) the person appointed or proposed for appointment; or

- (c) one of the employees referred to in subsection 65(3) of the Act, other than the complainant.

**Form and content of objection**

(2) The objection must be in writing and must include

- (a) the name and contact information of the objecting party;

- (b) the name and contact information of the objecting party’s authorized representative, if any;

- (c) the Board’s file number for the complaint;

- (d) the facts and any documents on which the objecting party relies in making the objection; and

- (e) the date of the objection.

- (f) [Repealed, SOR/2011-116, s. 13]

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 13; SOR/2014-250, s. 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 14

</details>

## Allegations

### 22 Time period

(1) Within 10 days after the end of the period for exchanging information, the complainant must provide their allegations to

- (a) the other parties;

- (b) the Board;

- (c) the intervenors, if any; and

- (d) the Canadian Human Rights Commission and the Accessibility Commissioner, if they are participants.

**Form and content of allegations**

(2) The allegations must be in writing and must include

- (a) the name and contact information of the complainant that can be disclosed to all parties;

- (b) the name and contact information of the complainant’s authorized representative, if any;

- (c) the Board’s file number for the complaint;

- (d) a detailed description of the allegations on which the complainant intends to rely and full particulars of the relevant facts; and

- (e) [Repealed, SOR/2011-116, s. 14]

- (f) the date of the document.

**Failure to provide allegations**

(3) If the complainant fails to provide allegations, the Board may dismiss the complaint.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 14; SOR/2014-250, ss. 7, 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 15

</details>

### 23 New or amended allegation

(1) The Board must, on request, permit the complainant to amend an allegation or provide a new allegation if

- (a) the amendment or new allegation results from information obtained that could not reasonably have been obtained before the complainant submitted their original allegations; or

- (b) it is otherwise in the interest of fairness to do so.

**Form and content of request**

(2) The request must be in writing and must include

- (a) the name and contact information of the complainant that can be disclosed to all parties;

- (b) the name and contact information of the complainant’s authorized representative, if any;

- (c) the Board’s file number for the complaint;

- (d) a detailed explanation as to why the complainant did not include the allegation with their original allegations or as to why the complainant needs to amend their allegations, as the case may be;

- (e) the new or amended allegation; and

- (f) [Repealed, SOR/2011-116, s. 15]

- (g) the date of the request.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 15; SOR/2014-250, ss. 6(F), 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 16
- SOR/2022-243, s. 23(E)

</details>

## Reply from the Respondent

### 24 Deadline for reply

(1) Within 15 days after receiving the complainant’s allegations or amended allegations, the respondent must provide their reply to

- (a) the other parties;

- (b) the Board;

- (c) the intervenors, if any; and

- (d) the Canadian Human Rights Commission and the Accessibility Commissioner, if they are participants.

**Form and content of reply**

(2) The reply must be in writing and must include

- (a) the name and contact information of the respondent;

- (b) the name and contact information of the respondent’s authorized representative, if any;

- (c) the Board’s file number for the complaint;

- (d) a full response to any allegations or issues raised in the complaint and full particulars of any additional relevant facts on which the respondent intends to rely; and

- (e) [Repealed, SOR/2011-116, s. 16]

- (f) the date of the reply.

**Failure to reply**

(3) If the respondent does not file their reply within the time period specified in these Regulations, without any reasonable explanation, the Board may dispose of the matter without giving that party the notice referred to in section 28.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 16; SOR/2014-250, ss. 7, 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 18

</details>

## Other Parties’ Replies

### 25 Other parties may reply

(1) Within 10 days after receiving the respondent’s reply, any other party who wishes to participate in the hearing must provide their reply to

- (a) the complainant;

- (b) the respondent;

- (c) the other parties;

- (d) the Board

- (e) the intervenors, if any; and

- (f) the Canadian Human Rights Commission and the Accessibility Commissioner, if they are participants.

**Form and content of reply**

(2) The reply must be in writing and must include

- (a) the name and contact information of the party;

- (b) the name and contact information of the party’s authorized representative, if any;

- (c) the Board’s file number for the complaint;

- (d) a full response to any allegations or issues raised in the complaint and full particulars of any additional relevant facts on which the party intends to rely; and

- (e) [Repealed, SOR/2011-116, s. 17]

- (f) the date of the reply.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 17; SOR/2014-250, ss. 7, 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 19

</details>

## Withdrawal of Complaint

### 26 Notice of withdrawal

(1) If a complainant wishes to withdraw their complaint, the complainant must file a written notice of the withdrawal with the Board.

**Content of notice**

(2) The notice of withdrawal must include

- (a) the name and contact information of the complainant that can be disclosed to all parties;

- (b) the name and contact information of the complainant’s authorized representative, if any;

- (c) the Board’s file number for the complaint;

- (d) a statement that the complainant wishes to withdraw the complaint;

- (e) the signature of the complainant or the complainant’s authorized representative; and

- (f) the date of the withdrawal.

**Notice to other parties and intervenors**

(3) On receiving the notice of withdrawal, the Board must give notice that the complaint has been withdrawn and the file closed to

- (a) the other parties;

- (b) the intervenors, if any; and

- (c) the Canadian Human Rights Commission and the Accessibility Commissioner, if they are participants.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 18; SOR/2014-250, ss. 7, 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 20
- SOR/2022-243, s. 23(E)

</details>

## The Hearing

### 27 Master of proceedings

The Board is master of the proceedings and may determine the manner and order of the presentation of evidence and arguments at the hearing.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2014-250, s. 8

</details>

### 28 Notice of hearing

(1) The Board must give notice of the date, time and place of the hearing to

- (a) the parties;

- (b) the intervenors, if any; and

- (c) the Canadian Human Rights Commission and the Accessibility Commissioner, if they are participants.

**Notice period**

(2) Unless the matter is urgent, the notice must be given at least seven days before the date of the hearing.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2014-250, s. 7
- SOR/2022-243, s. 21

</details>

### 29 Failure to appear

If a party, an intervenor or, if they are a participant, the Canadian Human Rights Commission or the Accessibility Commissioner does not appear at the hearing of a complaint or at any continuance of the hearing and the Board is satisfied that notice of the hearing was given to that party, intervenor or participant, the Board may proceed with the hearing and dispose of the complaint without further notice.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2011-116, s. 19(F); SOR/2014-250, s. 8
- SOR/2022-243, s. 22

</details>

### 30 Adjournment of hearing

The Board may adjourn a hearing and must advise of the day, time, place and terms of its continuance.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2014-250, s. 8

</details>

## Coming into Force

### 31 Coming into force

These Regulations come into force on the later of the day on which they are registered and December 31, 2005.

> The Public Service Staffing Tribunal, pursuant to section 109 of the *Public Service Employment Act*[^], hereby makes the annexed *Public Service Staffing Tribunal Regulations*.

