---
long_title: "Region of Waterloo International Airport Zoning Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2006-78"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Region of Waterloo International Airport Zoning Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

(1) The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**airport**means the Region of Waterloo International Airport in the Province of Ontario, in the Township of Woolwich, in the Regional Municipality of Waterloo. (**aéroport**)

**airport reference point**means the point described in Part 1 of the schedule. (**point de référence de l’aéroport**)

**approach surface**means an imaginary inclined surface that extends upward and outward from each end of a strip surface; such approach surfaces are referred to as take-off/approach surfaces and are described in Part 2 of the schedule. (**surface d’approche**)

**bird hazard zone** means the area in the immediate vicinity of the airport as described in Part 7 of the schedule. (**zone de péril aviaire**)

**outer limit** means the limit of the area, as described in Part 6 of the schedule, covered by the approach surfaces,bird hazard zone, outer surface, strip surface and transitional surfaces. (**limite extérieure**)

**outer surface** means the imaginary surface located above and in the immediate vicinity of the airport, which surface is described in Part 3 of the schedule. (**surface extérieure**)

**strip surface** means an imaginary surface associated with an airport runway, prepared for the take-off and landing of aircraft in a particular direction, which surfaces are described in Part 4 of the schedule. (**surface de bande**)

**transitional surface** means an imaginary inclined surface that extends upward and outward from the lateral limits of a strip surface and an approach surface, which surfaces are described in Part 5 of the schedule. (**surface de transition**)

(2) For the purposes of these Regulations, the assigned elevation of the airport reference point is 311.500 m above sea level, Canadian Geodetic Vertical Datum – CGVD28, 1978 Adjustment.

## Application

### 2

These Regulations apply in respect of all land, including public road allowances, that is adjacent to or in the vicinity of the airport within the limits described in Part 6 of the schedule.

## Building Restrictions

### 3

No person shall erect or construct, on land in respect of which these Regulations apply, a building, structure or object, or an addition to an existing building, structure or object, the highest point of which would exceed in elevation at the location of that point

- (a) an approach surface;

- (b) the outer surface; or

- (c) a transitional surface.

## Interference with Communication

### 4

No owner or lessee of land within the outer surface shall permit any part of that land to be used or developed in a manner that causes interference with any signal or communication to or from an aircraft or any facility used to provide services relating to aeronautics.

## Natural Growth

### 5

No owner or lessee of land in respect of which these Regulations apply shall permit an object of natural growth that is on the land to grow to a height that exceeds in elevation at the location of the object any surface referred to in section 3.

## Bird Hazard

### 6

No owner or lessee of land within the limits of the bird hazard zone shall permit any part of that land to be used for activities or uses that attract birds that create a hazard to aviation safety.

## Repeal

### 7

[Repeal]

## Coming into Force

### [^]8

These Regulations come into force on the day on which the requirements set out in subsection 5.6(2) of the *Aeronautics Act* are met.

> Whereas, pursuant to subsection 5.5(1)[^] of the *Aeronautics Act*, a copy of the proposed *Region of Waterloo International Airport Zoning Regulations*, substantially in the form set out in the annexed Regulations, was published in two successive issues of the *Canada Gazette*, Part I, on May 14 and May 21, 2005 and in two successive issues of *The Record* on June 13 and 14, 2005 and *Le Régional* on June 15 and June 22, 2005 and a reasonable opportunity was thereby afforded to interested persons to make representations to the Minister of Transport with respect to the proposed Regulations;



## SCHEDULE

(Subsection 1(1) and section 2)

### Description of Airport Reference Point

### Description of Take-off/Approach Surfaces

### Description of Outer Surface

### Description of Strip Surfaces

### Description of Transitional Surfaces

### Description of Outer Limit of Land in Respect of Which These Regulations Apply

### Description of Bird Hazard Zone

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2008-112, s. 1

</details>
