---
long_title: "General Import Permit No. 3 — Wheat and Wheat Products and Barley and Barley Products for Personal Use"
instrument_number: "SOR/95-396"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> General Import Permit No. 3 — Wheat and Wheat Products and Barley and Barley Products for Personal Use


### 1

[Repealed, SOR/97-42, s. 2]

## Interpretation

### 2

In this Permit,

**barley and barley products** means goods set out in items 22 to 31 and 33 of the schedule; (**orge et sous-produits de l’orge**)

**wheat and wheat products** means goods set out in items 1 to 21 and 32 of the schedule. (**froment (blé) et sous-produits du froment (blé)**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/96-52, s. 1

</details>

## General

### 3

A resident of Canada may, under the authority of this Permit, import into Canada for the personal use of the importer and the importer’s household wheat and wheat products and barley and barley products.

### 4

Where goods imported under the authority of this Permit are required to be reported in the prescribed form under the *Customs Act*, that form shall contain the statement “Imported under the authority of *General Import Permit No. 3 — Wheat and Wheat Products and Barley and Barley Products for Personal Use*” or “Importé en vertu de la*Licence générale d’importation n^o^ 3 — Froment (blé) et sous-produits du froment (blé) et orge et sous-produits de l’orge pour usage personnel*”.

## Coming into Force

### 5

(1) Item 9 of the schedule comes into force on the day on which tariff item No. 1902.11.11 of Schedule I to the *Customs Tariff* comes into force.

(2) Item 19 of the schedule comes into force, in respect of goods that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.90.23 of Schedule I to the *Customs Tariff*, on the day on which that tariff item No. comes into force.

> Whereas wheat and wheat products, and barley and barley products have been included on the *Import Control List*[^], C.R.C., c. 604;



## SCHEDULE

(Section 2)

### Wheat

### Wheat Products

### Barley

### Barley Products

### Goods Classified Under Heading No. 98.04 in the List of Tariff Provisions Set Out in the Schedule to the Customs Tariff

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/96-52, ss. 2 to 4; SOR/97-42, ss. 3 to 5; SOR/98-67, ss. 1 to 4; SOR/2002-90, ss. 1 to 4; SOR/2011-307, ss. 1, 2

</details>
