---
long_title: "Copyright Board Rules of Practice and Procedure"
instrument_number: "SOR/2023-24"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Copyright Board Rules of Practice and Procedure


## Definitions, Application and Interpretation

### Definitions

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Rules.

**Act** means the *Copyright Act*. (**Loi**)

**Chair** means the Chair of the Board appointed under subsection 66(1) of the Act. (**président**)

**intervener** means a person granted leave by the Board to intervene in a proceeding before the Board. (**intervenant**)

**member** means a member appointed under subsection 66(1) of the Act. (**commissaire**)

**objector** means a person that files an objection to a proposed tariff. (**opposant**)

**party** means, in relation to a matter in respect of a proposed tariff filed under section 67 or 83 of the Act, the collective society that filed the proposed tariff, an objector or an intervener and, in relation to a proceeding in respect of an application made under subsection 71(1) of the Act, a collective society or user referred to in that subsection or an interverner. (**partie**)

### Application

### 2 Application

These Rules apply to any matter in relation to

- (a) a proposed tariff filed by a collective society with respect to rights under section 3, 15, 18, 19 or 21 of the Act;

- (b) a proposed tariff filed by a collective society with respect to royalties referred to in subsections 29.7(2) and (3) and paragraph 31(2)(d) of the Act;

- (c) a proposed tariff filed by a collective society with respect to levies referred to in section 82 of the Act; and

- (d) an application to fix royalty rates or any related terms or conditions in individual cases under subsection 71(1) of the Act.

### Interpretation

#### Liberal Interpretation

### 3 Varying, supplementing or dispensing with rules

As the circumstances and considerations of fairness permit, the Board may vary or supplement these Rules, or dispense with compliance with these Rules in whole or in part, including in order to

- (a) deal with matters informally and expeditiously;

- (b) allow for meaningful participation of persons with an interest in a matter before the Board; or

- (c) deal with special circumstances.

### 4 Directions

The Board may, on its own initiative or on the request of a party or interested person, issue directions in respect of any procedural issue not explicitly addressed by these Rules or in respect of any uncertainty as to the application of these Rules.

#### Calculating Time Limits

### 5 Days not counted

The days included in the period beginning on December 21 in one year and ending on January 7 in the following year do not count in the calculation of a time limit set out in these Rules or in an order or a direction of the Board.

### 6 Definition of **business day**

In these Rules, **business day** means a day other than a Saturday, a holiday or a day that falls in the period referred to in rule 5.

### 7 Time limit

If a time limit set out in these Rules or an order or direction of the Board falls on a day other than a business day, the time limit is extended to the next business day.

## General

### Defect in form

### 8 Validity

No document or proceeding under these Rules is invalid by reason solely of a defect in form or technical irregularity.

### Non-compliance

### 9 Non-compliance

If a party does not comply with these Rules, an order or direction of the Board, the Board may

- (a) stay the proceeding until it is satisfied that the party has complied with the Rules, the order or the direction;

- (b) decide the matter only on the basis of the information on the record; and

- (c) take any measure that it considers fair in the circumstances.

### Quorum

### 10 Quorum

In all proceedings before the Board, the quorum is one member.

### Filing of Documents

### 11 Manner of filing

Unless otherwise provided by these Rules, a document to be filed with the Board must be filed by the electronic means specified by the Board.

### 12 Date of filing

The date of filing of a document with the Board is the date on which the Board receives the document. A document filed after 17:00 Ottawa local time is deemed to have been filed on the next business day.

### Service of Documents

### 13 Manner of service

(1) Service of a document is effected by sending an email that includes the document to the person being served or the person’s authorized representative. If it cannot be effected by email, service may be effected by personal service, by mail to the address for service described in subrule (2) or by any other means that the Board authorizes.

**Address for service**

(2) The address for service is

- (a) the most recent address used by the person or the person’s authorized representative in their written communication with the Board with respect to a proposed tariff or an application made under subsection 71(1) of the Act; or

- (b) in the absence of the address referred to in paragraph (a), the most recent address that was used by the Board to send any notice or that appears in any notice issued by the Board with respect to the proposed tariff or the application made under subsection 71(1) of the Act or if no such address has been used or appears, the last known address of the person or the person’s authorized representative.

**Date and time of service**

(3) A document is served on the date on which and at the time at which the person being served or the person’s authorized representative receives the document.

**Service by email**

(4) In the absence of evidence to the contrary, a document served by email is presumed to have been received on the date and at the time that the email was sent.

**Receipt after 17:00**

(5) A document received or presumed to have been received after 17:00 Ottawa local time is deemed to have been served on the next business day.

**Proof of service**

(6) If a person serves a document, the person must, at the Board’s request, file a proof of service of the document with the Board, in the form and manner specified by the Board.

**Proof of service — email**

(7) Absent evidence to the contrary, the email referred to in subsection (1) constitutes proof of service of a document.

### Language

### 14 Documents and proceedings

(1) Subject to subsections 68.1(1) and 83(3) of the Act, documents used in a proceeding before the Board must be in the official language or languages of the parties’ choice and proceedings must be conducted in the official language or languages of the parties’ choice.

**Translation**

(2) A document written in a language that is other than English or French may be filed and served only if it is accompanied by a translation of that document into English or French and an affidavit attesting to the accuracy of the translation.

## Filing of Proposed Tariff

### Notice of Grounds for Proposed Tariff

### 15 Filing of notice of grounds

A collective society that files a proposed tariff must file with the Board a notice of grounds for the proposed tariff within seven days after the day on which the proposed tariff is filed.

### 16 Contents of notice

The notice of grounds for the proposed tariff must

- (a) describe the uses covered by the proposed tariff;

- (b) set out the basis for the proposed royalty or levy rates; and

- (c) include any other information required by the Board.

### Other Documents

### 17 Filing of certain documents

(1) A collective society that files a proposed tariff that covers the same or substantially the same uses as those in the last approved tariff or, if there is no approved tariff, in the last proposed tariff must file with the Board a comparative document that indicates the differences between the two tariffs, at the same time that it files a notice of grounds for the proposed tariff under rule 15.

**Publication of notice**

(2) The Board must, in the manner that it sees fit, publish the notice of grounds for the proposed tariff and the comparative document.

**Additional information**

(3) A collective society may, at the same that it files the notice of grounds for a proposed tariff, file additional information for the Board’s consideration of the proposed tariff.

### Notice of Grounds for Objection

### 18 Filing of notice of grounds for objection

A person that objects to a proposed tariff must file an objection with the Board in accordance with subsection 68.3(2) of the Act together with a notice of grounds for objection.

### 19 Contents of notice of grounds for objection

The notice of grounds for objection must, as applicable,

- (a) set out the grounds for why the Board should not approve the proposed tariff despite any alteration of royalties or levies or fixation of terms or conditions;

- (b) set out the grounds for objection to the proposed tariff; and

- (c) include any other information required by the Board.

### 20 Additional information

At the same time a person files a notice of grounds for objection, the person may also file additional information for the Board’s consideration of the proposed tariff and of alterations to the royalty rates and to the related terms and conditions or of the new related terms and conditions.

### 21 Timing of reply

A collective society that intends to file a reply to an objection under subsection 68.4(1) or 83(7) of the Act must do so within 14 days after the day on which it receives the notice of grounds for objection.

### 22 Sufficient information

If the Board concludes that it has sufficient information to decide a matter before it, the Board may after giving notice to the collective society and the objector, decide the matter only on the information provided in the notice of grounds for the proposed tariff, any notice of grounds for objection and any reply to an objection and on any additional information filed under subrule 17(3) or rule 20.

## Conduct of Proceedings

### Commencement of Proceedings

### 23 Notification

The Board must, in the manner it sees fit, publish a notice when it commences a proceeding.

### Statement of Issues To Be Considered

### 24 Joint statement of issues to be considered

(1) Subject to an order of the Board or case manager, if the Board has commenced a proceeding with respect to a proposed tariff and an objection to the proposed tariff has been filed, the parties to that proceeding other than an intervener, must jointly file with the Board a joint statement of issues to be considered.

**Time limit**

(2) The joint statement of issues to be considered referred to in subrule (1) must be filed within 90 days after the day on which the proceeding is commenced or within the time limit specified by the Board or case manager.

### 25 Contents of statement

The statement of issues to be considered must contain

- (a) a description of the issues to be considered;

- (b) if applicable, a proposal to consolidate the proceeding with one or more other proceedings with respect to other proposed tariffs filed with the Board or with applications to fix royalty rates under subsection 71(1) of the Act, or with both; and

- (c) any other information required by the Board.

### 26 Lack of agreement

If the parties are unable to agree on a joint statement of issues to be considered, each party to the proceeding, other than an intervener, must file with the Board and serve on each other party, within the time limit referred to in rule 24, a separate statement of issues to be considered that contains

- (a) a description of the issues to be considered and the party’s position regarding each of those issues;

- (b) if applicable, a proposal to consolidate the proceeding with one or more other proceedings with respect to other proposed tariffs filed with the Board; and

- (c) any other information required by the Board.

### 27 Consideration of other Issues

The Board may consider relevant issues other than those identified by the parties in the statement of issues to be considered.

### Case Management

### 28 Definition of **case manager**

For the purposes of rules 23, 24, 29 to 35 and 53, **case manager** means the person assigned by the Chair under subsection 66.504(1) of the Act.

### 29 Powers of case manager

(1) In relation to a matter or any step in a matter, the case manager may give a direction or make an order that adapts, restricts or excludes the application of any provision of these Rules.

**Participation in decision on merits**

(2) The assignment of a member as the case manager does not prevent that member from participating in the decision on the merits of the matter.

### 30 Case management conference

(1) The case manager may, during the course of a matter, conduct one or more case management conferences.

**Topics to be considered**

(2) During a case management conference, any of the following topics may be considered:

- (a) the clarification, simplification and elimination of issues to be considered;

- (b) opportunities for an agreement to be concluded on any of the issues to be considered;

- (c) the issue of whether a question of law should be determined by the Board;

- (d) the official language the parties will use during the proceeding;

- (e) the issue of whether interrogatories should take place and their parameters as applicable;

- (f) the filing of evidence;

- (g) any questions of confidentiality;

- (h) the parameters of any expert testimony, including the possibility of experts meeting before or after a hearing to answer questions posed by the Board;

- (i) a proceeding schedule and the expected duration of the hearing;

- (j) the documents to be filed with the Board before a hearing, including legal briefs and case records;

- (k) the information and documents to be submitted to the parties at a hearing;

- (l) a timetable for subsequent case management conferences;

- (m) other issues to be resolved.

### 31 Case management order

After a case management conference, the case manager may make an order relating to any issue considered at the case management conference.

### 32 Request for variation of order

(1) A party may submit a request to the case manager to vary a case management order made under rule 31. The request must be filed with the Board and served on each other party.

**Content of request**

(2) The request to vary must indicate the reason why the request is being made and must include a statement indicating whether the other parties have consented to the variation.

**Variation of the order**

(3) The case manager may vary the order if there are compelling reasons to do so.

### 33 Joint request

(1) If a collective society and one or more objectors jointly submit a set of royalty rates and related terms and conditions to the Board and jointly request that the Board approve a proposed tariff based on those royalty rates and terms and conditions, they must

- (a) file a submission in support of their request;

- (b) file all agreements concluded between the parties that relate to the same uses or substantially the same uses as those covered by the proposed tariff;

- (c) identify each proposed tariff, or a portion of the proposed tariff, that is to be approved on the basis of the request; and

- (d) provide any other information required by the Board.

**Procedure**

(2) On receiving the request, the Board or the case manager may, if it or they consider it appropriate to do so, establish any procedural steps in the matter or make modifications to any schedule of proceeding.

### Interrogatories

### 34 Interrogatories

The Board or the case manager may make an order to permit interrogatories and to specify their number, type, scope and form, the time limits for their completion and the person to whom they may be addressed.

### Case Records

### 35 Authorization of filing

(1) The Board or the case manager may authorize or require a person to file a case record, a response to a case record or a reply to a response.

**Service**

(2) If a party files a case record, a response to a case record, or a reply to a response with the Board, they must serve it on each other party.

**Contents of case record or response**

(3) The case record or response to a case record must contain

- (a) a statement of case setting out the party’s position and how they intend to support it;

- (b) the documentary exhibits on which the party intends to rely, including any expert reports and sworn statements or solemn declarations of lay witnesses, if applicable;

- (c) a list of the documentary exhibits, if applicable;

- (d) a list of witnesses the party intends to call and an indication of the time required for the examination of each witness, if applicable; and

- (e) any other information required by the Board.

**Contents of reply**

(4) A reply to a response to a case record must contain

- (a) the documentary exhibits on which the party intends to rely, including any expert reports and sworn statements or solemn declarations of lay witnesses, if applicable;

- (b) a list of the documentary exhibits, if applicable;

- (c) a list of witnesses the party intends to call and an indication of the time required for the examination of each witness, if applicable; and

- (d) any other information required by the Board.

### 36 Filing in an oral hearing

Unless otherwise ordered by the Board or the case manager, in the case of an oral hearing, a collective society must file a case record and an objector must file a response to the case record.

### 37 Filing and service

(1) Any case record, any response to the case record and any reply to the response must be filed and served within the time limits set by the Board.

**Paper copies**

(2) Unless the Board orders otherwise, in addition to the electronic filing referred to in rule 11, two paper copies of any case record, response to the case record and reply to the response must be filed with the Board.

### 38 Legal brief

(1) The Board may, in response to a request of a party or on its own initiative and on terms that it considers appropriate, allow a party to file a legal brief and allow other parties to file a response to that legal brief.

**Service**

(2) The legal brief and any response to the legal brief must be served on each other party.

### 39 Amendments

The Board may grant leave to amend a statement of issues to be considered, case record, response to a case record, reply to a response to a case record, legal brief or response to a legal brief on the terms the Board considers appropriate.

### Written or Oral Hearing

### 40 Written or oral hearing

The Board may hold a written or oral hearing in respect of any matter before it.

### Oral Hearing

### 41 Simultaneous interpretation services

A party that requires simultaneous interpretation services must submit a request to the Board at least 30 days before the date of the hearing.

### 42 Oral hearing open to public

(1) Unless the Board orders otherwise, oral hearings of the Board on the merits of a matter are open to the public.

**In camera**

(2) A party may submit a request to the Board for all or a portion of an oral hearing not to be open to the public. The Board may make any order that it considers appropriate in the circumstances.

### 43 Documents received during oral hearing

A document that is not part of a case record, a response to a case record or a reply to a response to a case record must not be received as evidence at an oral hearing unless it is to be used only for the purposes of cross-examination of a witness or the Board permits it to be received as evidence.

### 44 Transcript

The Board may cause a transcript, recording or other record of an oral hearing on the merits of a matter to be prepared.

## Evidence

### 45 Supplemental information

The Board may, at any time in a proceeding, require a party to provide it with information or documents to supplement the record.

### 46 Confidentiality order

(1) At any time in a proceeding, parties may file a joint request for a confidentiality order with the Board. The request must specify the manner in which the information to be designated as confidential or highly confidential is to be treated and must be accompanied by a proposed confidentiality order.

**Documents filed before commencement**

(2) A party may file confidential or highly confidential information before the commencement of a proceeding only with leave of the Board.

**Disagreement**

(3) In the absence of an agreement among the parties, a party may file its own request for a confidentiality order with the Board, together with a proposed confidentiality order and a statement indicating the reasons why the parties could not agree.

**Designation**

(4) Once a confidentiality order has been made, a party may designate the information that it filed with the Board in the proceeding as confidential or highly confidential.

**Warranted designation**

(5) The Board may, in response to a request from a party or, after giving the parties notice, on its own initiative, determine whether the designation is warranted and make any order that it considers appropriate.

**Public record**

(6) Any document that is filed with the Board in relation to a matter and any related proceeding is placed on the public record, unless the document has been designated as confidential or highly confidential.

### 47 Leave

The Board may order that a party request leave before designating any information as confidential or highly confidential as well as provide an explanation that justifies the designation.

### 48 Expert witness report

(1) Every party who, in a proceeding before the Board, intends to introduce evidence given by an expert witness must

- (a) file with the Board and serve on each other party an expert witness report that
  - (i) contains a summary of the expert’s report,
  - (ii) describes the qualifications of the expert with respect to the issues addressed in the report,
  - (iii) contains the expert’s curriculum vitae,
  - (iv) sets out the issues addressed in the report,
  - (v) sets out the expert’s opinion respecting each issue addressed in the report,
  - (vi) in the case of a report provided in response to another expert’s report, sets out the points of agreement and disagreement with the other expert’s opinions,
  - (vii) sets out the grounds supporting each expressed opinion,
  - (viii) describes the facts and assumptions on which the opinions in the report are based,
  - (ix) includes any literature, documents and data specifically relied on in support of the opinions expressed,
  - (x) sets out a complete description of the methodology on which the expert has relied, and
  - (xi) sets out any caveats or qualifications necessary to render the report complete and accurate, including those relating to any insufficiency of data or research and any issues that fall outside the expert’s field of expertise;

- (b) file with the Board and serve on each other party any form that is specified by the Board in relation to the expert witness report; and

- (c) ensure that the expert witness is available for examination and cross-examination at the hearing.

**Refusal of Board**

(2) The Board may refuse to consider expert witness evidence if that evidence addresses issues not mentioned in any document filed under subrule 35(1) or rule 36.

### 49 Appointment of independent experts

(1) The Board may, at any time, by order, appoint one or more independent experts to inquire into and report on any question of fact or give their opinion relevant to an issue in a proceeding.

**Expert report**

(2) The report of an independent expert is to be placed on the public record of the proceeding.

**Submissions**

(3) Any party may make submissions to the Board with respect to the terms of the appointment of an independent expert and may file a written response to the independent expert’s report.

### 50 Subpoena

The Board may, in response to a request from a party or on its own initiative, issue a subpoena for the attendance of a witness at the hearing or for the production of documents.

## Parties and Proceedings

### 51 Severance and Consolidation

At any time the Board may, on its own initiative or at the request of any party, order that any proceeding be severed or, that any two or more proceedings be consolidated, heard together, heard consecutively or severed.

### 52 Request for leave to intervene

(1) Any person with an interest in a proceeding that is before the Board and that is in respect of a proposed tariff or an application under subsection 71(1) of the Act, may make a request to the Board for leave to intervene.

**Filing of request**

(2) The request for leave to intervene must be filed with the Board as soon as feasible after the commencement of a proceeding and served on each other party.

**Form and content**

(3) The request for leave to intervene must be in writing and must set out

- (a) the name and address of the requester and the requester’s authorized representative, if any;

- (b) an explanation of why the intervention is necessary and the interest of the requester in the matter;

- (c) a concise statement of the facts on which the request is based;

- (d) the issues that the requester intends to address; and

- (e) an indication of how the requester wishes to participate in the proceeding.

**Submissions**

(4) Any party may make submissions with respect to the request for leave to intervene by filing them with the Board and serving a copy of them on the requester within 15 days after the day on which the served request to intervene is received.

**Factors considered by the Board**

(5) In determining whether to grant leave to intervene, the Board must consider

- (a) whether the requester has an interest in the proceeding that is sufficient to warrant the intervention;

- (b) whether the requester will present information or submissions that are useful and different;

- (c) whether the intervention will prejudice any party to the proceeding;

- (d) whether the intervention will interfere with the fair and expeditious conduct of the proceeding; and

- (e) any other factor that the Board considers appropriate.

**Decision of the Board**

(6) The Board may grant or deny the request for leave to intervene and impose any condition or restriction that it considers appropriate, including a restriction on the scope of the intervention.

**Notice to parties**

(7) The Board must notify the parties to the proceeding of its decision.

**Service**

(8) Subject to any confidentiality order and any restrictions imposed by the Board under subrule (6), each party must serve on the intervener or its authorized representative any document that is filed by a party after the day on which the parties are notified of the Board’s decision to grant the request for leave to intervene.

### 53 Letter of comment

(1) Any interested person that does not intend to request leave to intervene but wishes to make comments on the proceeding may file with the Board a letter of comment before

- (a) the day fixed by the Board or the case manager as the final day on which any party may present their written or oral submission; or

- (b) any other day specified by the Board or case manager.

**Contents of letter**

(2) The letter of comment must contain

- (a) comments on the proceeding;

- (b) a description of the nature of the person’s interest in the proceeding; and

- (c) any relevant information that will explain or support the person’s comments.

**Copies to parties and on public record**

(3) The Board must provide all parties with a copy of any letter of comment and must place a copy of the letter on its public record of the proceeding.

**Response**

(4) A party may, within 15 days after the day on which the party receives a letter of comment, file a response with the Board and serve a copy of that response on all parties.

**Consideration by the Board**

(5) A letter of comment that is filed with the Board and any response to that letter must be considered by the Board.

**Status**

(6) A person that files a letter of comment with the Board does not become a party to the proceeding.

## Transitional Provisions and Coming into Force

### Transitional Provisions

### 54 Proceedings commenced

(1) These Rules apply in respect of all proceedings before the Board whether commenced before or after these Rules come into force, except in respect of steps already taken before the coming into force of these Rules.

**Directive of the Board**

(2) Any proceeding commenced or document filed in accordance with a directive of the Board before the coming into force of these Rules is not invalid merely because the proceeding or document does not conform to these Rules.

### Coming into Force

### 55 Registration

These Rules come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Whereas, under subsection 66.6(2)[^] of the *Copyright Act*[^], a copy of the proposed *Copyright Board Rules of Practice and Procedure*, substantially in the annexed form, was published in the *Canada Gazette*, Part I, on June 18, 2022 and a reasonable opportunity was afforded to interested persons to make representations to the Copyright Board with respect to the proposed Regulations;

