---
long_title: "British Columbia Chicken Order"
instrument_number: "SOR/97-424"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> British Columbia Chicken Order


## Interpretation

### 1

The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

**chicken** means chicken of any class that is under six months of age, not raised or used for egg production and grown in the area covered by the Scheme. It includes any chicken component or any article of food or drink wholly or partially manufactured or derived from chicken. (**poulet**)

**Commodity Board** means the British Columbia Chicken Marketing Board continued by the Scheme. (**Office de commercialisation**)

**Scheme** means the *British Columbia Chicken Marketing Scheme, 1961*, as amended from time to time, established by Order in Council No. 3093/61 of the Lieutenant Governor in Council of British Columbia on December 12, 1961 pursuant to the *Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act*. (**Programme**)

## General

### Interprovincial and Export Trade

### 2

The Commodity Board is authorized to regulate the marketing of chickens in interprovincial and export trade and for those purposes may, with respect to persons and property regulated within the Province of British Columbia, exercise all or any powers like the powers exercisable by it in relation to the marketing of chickens locally within that Province under paragraphs 4.01(a) to (j) and (l) of the Scheme.

### Levies or Charges

### 3

The Board may, in relation to the powers granted to it by section 2,

- (a) fix and impose levies or charges on chicken and collect those levies or charges from persons referred to in section 2 who are engaged in the production or marketing of chicken and for that purpose may classify those persons into groups and fix the levies or charges payable by the members of the different groups in different amounts; and

- (b) use the levies or charges for the purposes of the Commodity Board, including the creation of reserves, the payment of expenses and losses resulting from the sale or disposal of chicken and the equalization or adjustment among producers of chicken of money realized from the sale of chicken during any period that the Board may determine.

## Repeal

### 4

[Repeal]

## Coming into Force

### 5

This Order comes into force on August 28, 1997.

> His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to subsections 2(1) and (2) of the *Agricultural Products Marketing Act*, hereby makes the annexed *British Columbia Chicken Order*.

