---
long_title: "New Brunswick Primary Forest Products Order"
instrument_number: "SOR/2000-228"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> New Brunswick Primary Forest Products Order


## Interpretation

### 1

(1) The definitions in this subsection apply in this Order.

**Act** means the *Natural Product Act*, S.N.B. 1999, c. N-1.2, as amended from time to time. (**Loi**)

**Board** means a Forest Products Marketing Board set out in column 1 of the schedule. (**office**)

**Plan** means, in respect of a Board set out in column 1 of an item of the schedule, the Marketing Plan established by the Regulation, as amended from time to time, set out in column 2 of that item. (**plan**)

**primary forest product** means any unmanufactured product of forest trees of hardwood or softwood species, except coniferous trees cut for sale as Christmas trees and products from the sap of maple trees. (**produit forestier de base**)

(2) In this Order, **private woodlot**, **producer** and **regulated area**, in respect of a Board referred to in column 1 of an item of the schedule, have the meanings assigned to them by the Regulation, as amended from time to time, set out in column 2 of that item.

## Interprovincial and Export Trade

### 2

Every Board is authorized to regulate the marketing in interprovincial and export trade of primary forest products produced by producers on private woodlots within its regulated area and for those purposes may, with respect to persons and property situated within New Brunswick, exercise all or any powers like the powers exercisable by the Board under its Plan and the Act in relation to the marketing of primary forest products locally within New Brunswick.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2003-316, s. 1

</details>

## Levies and Charges

### 3

Every Board may, in relation to the powers granted to it by section 2,

- (a) fix, impose and collect levies or charges from persons in New Brunswick who are engaged in the production or marketing of primary forest products produced by producers on private woodlots within its regulated area and for those purposes may classify those persons into groups and fix the levies or charges payable by the members of the different groups in different amounts; and

- (b) use the levies or charges for the purposes of the Board, including the creation of reserves, the payment of expenses and losses resulting from the sale or disposal of primary forest products and the equalization or adjustment among producers of primary forest products of moneys realized from the sale of those products during such period or periods of time as the Board may determine.

## Coming into Force

### 4

This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 2[^] of the *Agricultural Products Marketing Act*, hereby makes the annexed *New Brunswick Primary Forest Products Order*.



## SCHEDULE

(Subsection 1(1))

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 |
| Item | Board | Regulation Establishing Plan |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Carleton-Victoria Forest Products Marketing Board | *Carleton-Victoria Forest Products Marketing Plan Regulation* — *Farm Products Marketing Act*, N.B. Reg 83-220 |
| 2 | North Shore Forest Products Marketing Board | *North Shore Forest Products Marketing Plan Regulation — Farm Products Marketing Act*, N.B. Reg 83-222 |
| 3 | Northumberland County Forest Products Marketing Board | *Northumberland County Forest Products Marketing Plan Regulation* — *Farm Products Marketing Act*, N.B. Reg 83-223 |
| 4 | South East New Brunswick Forest Products Marketing Board | *South East New Brunswick Forest Products Marketing Plan Regulation* — *Farm Products Marketing Act*, N.B. Reg 83-224 |
| 5 | York-Sunbury-Charlotte Forest Products Marketing Board | *York-Sunbury-Charlotte Forest Products Marketing Plan Regulation* — *Farm Products Marketing Act*, N.B. Reg 83-226 |
| 6 | Southern New Brunswick Forest Products Marketing Board | *Southern New Brunswick Forest Products Marketing Plan Regulation* — *Farm Products Marketing Act*, N.B. Reg 88-222 |
| 7 | Madawaska Forest Products Marketing Board | *Madawaska Forest Products Marketing Plan Regulation* — *Farm Products Marketing Act*, N.B. Reg 83-221 |

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2003-316, s. 2

</details>
