---
long_title: "Yukon Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2005-43"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Yukon Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**Act** means the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*. (**Loi**)

**RCMP** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (**GRC**)

**YSOIRC** means the Yukon Sex Offender Information Registration Centre located in Whitehorse and administered by RCMP “M” Division. (**BIRDSYUK**)

## Notification by Telephone

### 2

A sex offender whose main residence is located in Yukon may provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act by telephone to the YSOIRC.

## Persons Authorized to Collect Information

### 3

A member of the RCMP is authorized in Yukon to collect information for the purposes of the Act.

## Persons Authorized to Register Information

### 4

The following persons are authorized in Yukon to register information for the purposes of the Act:

- (a) a member of the RCMP; and

- (b) a person employed by the RCMP whose duties include the registration of information collected under the Act.

## Registration Centres

### 5

(1) Each RCMP detachment in Yukon is designated as a registration centre and the designated area of service of each registration centre is the area served by the detachment.

(2) The YSOIRC is designated as a registration centre in Yukon and its designated area of service is all of Yukon.

## Coming into Force

### 6

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*[^], the Commissioner of Yukon hereby makes the annexed *Yukon Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations*.

