---
long_title: "Order Varying Certain National Transportation Agency Orders Respecting Railway Companies"
instrument_number: "SOR/89-488"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Order Varying Certain National Transportation Agency Orders Respecting Railway Companies


> Whereas the orders referred to in Schedules I to VII were made by the Railway Transport Committee of the Canadian Transport Commission as it existed on the day immediately before the coming into force of section 272 of the *National Transportation Act, 1987*[^];



## SCHEDULE I  Passenger Train Service Order

### 1

Sections 2 and 3 of Order No. R-38000 of April 29, 1985 are revoked and the following substituted therefor:

### 2

All that portion of the Appendix to the said Order preceding Schedule II thereof is revoked and the following substituted therefor:


## SCHEDULE II  Montréal-Québec via Drummondville and via Trois-Rivières; Montréal-Ottawa;  Montréal-Toronto; Kingston-Toronto; Ottawa-Toronto; Toronto-Stratford; Toronto-Sarnia; Toronto-London  via Stratford; Toronto-London via Brantford; Toronto-Windsor; and Toronto-Niagara Falls

### 1

Section 2 of Order No. R-41255 of November 12, 1987 is revoked and the following substituted therefor:


## SCHEDULE III  Halifax-Yarmouth; Halifax-Saint John; Halifax-Montréal; Moncton-Montréal; Gaspé-Montréal; Jonquière-Montréal; Montréal-Cochrane; Montréal/Toronto-Vancouver;  Capreol-Winnipeg;Sudbury-White River; and Winnipeg-Churchill

### 1

Section 2 of Order No. R-39638 of August 6, 1986 as amended by Order No. 1988-R-398 of April 29, 1988, is revoked and the following substituted therefor:


## SCHEDULE IV  Matapédia-Gaspé and Sydney-Truro-Halifax

### 1

Section 1 in respect of Canadian National Railways of Order No. R-24328 of February 4, 1977, as amended by Order Nos. R-28953 and R-28954 of June 28, 1979 and Order in Council P.C. 1981-2171 of August 6, 1981[^], is revoked and the following substituted therefor:


## SCHEDULE V  Toronto-North Bay-Kapuskasing

### 1

Section 1 of Order No. R-41065 of August 28, 1987 is revoked and the following substituted therefor:


## SCHEDULE VI  Winnipeg-Edmonton-Vancouver

### 1

Section 1 of Order No. R-36619 of May 3, 1984 is revoked and the following substituted therefor:

### 2

Section 3 of the said Order is revoked and the following substituted therefor:


## SCHEDULE VII  [Repealed, SOR/90-76]
