---
long_title: "Regulations Implementing the United Nations Resolutions on Lebanon"
instrument_number: "SOR/2007-204"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Regulations Implementing the United Nations Resolutions on Lebanon


## Interpretation

### 1

The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

**arms and related material** means any type of weapon, ammunition, military vehicle or military or paramilitary equipment, and includes their spare parts. (**armes et matériel connexe**)

**Canadian** means an individual who is a citizen within the meaning of the *Citizenship Act* or a body corporate incorporated by or continued under the laws of Canada or a province. (**Canadien**)

**Lebanon** means the Lebanese Republic and includes its political subdivisions. (**Liban**)

**Minister** means the Minister of Foreign Affairs. (**ministre**)

**person** means an individual, a body corporate, a trust, a partnership, a fund, an unincorporated association or organization or a foreign state. (**personne**)

**Security Council** means the Security Council of the United Nations. (**Conseil de sécurité**)

**Security Council Resolution**[Repealed, SOR/2024-138, s. 19]

**technical assistance** means any form of assistance, such as providing instruction, training, consulting services or technical advice or transferring know-how or technical data. (**aide technique**)

**technical data** includes blueprints, technical drawings, photographic imagery, computer software, models, formulas, engineering designs and specifications, technical and operating manuals and any technical information. (**données techniques**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2024-138, s. 19

</details>

## Application

### 2

These Regulations are binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.

## Prohibitions

### 3

No person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly export, sell, supply or ship, directly or indirectly, arms and related material, wherever situated, to any person in Lebanon.

### 4

No owner or master of a Canadian vessel, as defined in section 2 of the *Canada Shipping Act, 2001*, and no operator of an aircraft registered in Canada shall knowingly carry, cause to be carried or permit to be carried, arms and related material, wherever situated, destined for any person in Lebanon.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2009-23, s. 7

</details>

### 5

No person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly provide, directly or indirectly, to any person in Lebanon technical assistance related to the provision, manufacture, maintenance or use of arms and related material.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2009-23, ss. 8(E), 9

</details>

### 6

Sections 3 to 5 do not apply in respect of arms and related material and related technical assistance authorized in advance in writing by the Government of Lebanon or by the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon.

### 7

It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly do anything that causes, facilitates or assists in, or is intended to cause, facilitate or assist in, any activity prohibited by sections 3 to 5.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2019-60, s. 16

</details>

### 7.1

Nothing in these Regulations prohibits the provision, processing or payment of funds, other financial assets or economic resources or the provision of goods and services that are necessary to ensure the timely delivery of humanitarian assistance or to support other activities that support basic human needs in Lebanon by

- (a) the United Nations, including its programs, funds and other entities and bodies, as well as its specialized agencies and related organizations;

- (b) international organizations;

- (c) humanitarian organizations that have been granted observer status by the United Nations General Assembly and members of those humanitarian organizations;

- (d) bilaterally or multilaterally funded non-governmental organizations that are participating in any United Nations humanitarian response plan, refugee response plan or other United Nations appeals for assistance or in groups of humanitarian organizations coordinated by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, including the employees, grantees, subsidiaries and implementing partners of those non-governmental organizations while acting in those capacities;

- (e) any other person authorized for that purpose by a United Nations committee established by the Security Council acting within its mandate.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-134, s. 7

</details>

## Application

### 8

(1) A person that wishes to engage in any activity that is prohibited under these Regulations may, before doing so, apply to the Minister in writing for a certificate to exempt the activity from the application of the Regulations.

(2) The Minister must issue the certificate if the Security Council did not intend that such an activity be prohibited or if the activity has been approved in advance by the Security Council or the Committee of the Security Council established under Resolution 1636 (2005) of October 31, 2005, adopted by the Security Council.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2019-60, s. 16
- SOR/2024-138, s. 20

</details>

## Application Prior to Publication

### 9

For the purpose of paragraph 11(2)(a) of the *Statutory Instruments Act*, these Regulations apply according to their terms before they are published in the *Canada Gazette*.

## Coming into Force

### 10

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Whereas the Security Council of the United Nations, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, adopted Resolution 1701 (2006) on August 11, 2006;



## RELATED PROVISIONS

### — SOR/2019-60, s. 32

### 32

For the purpose of paragraph 11(2)(a) of the *Statutory Instruments Act*, these Regulations apply before they are published in the *Canada Gazette*.
