---
long_title: "Canada Turkey Marketing Levies Order (2019)"
instrument_number: "SOR/2019-54"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Canada Turkey Marketing Levies Order (2019)


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in this Order.

**processor** means any person who, in the regulated area, is engaged in the slaughtering of turkeys. (**transformateur**)

**producer** means any person who, in the regulated area, is engaged in the production of turkeys. (**producteur**)

**turkey** means a turkey of any variety, grade or class. (**dindon**)

## Producer Levies

### 2 Amount of levies

Each producer who is in the regulated area must pay, on each kilogram live weight of turkey that they market in inter-provincial or export trade, the following levies:

- (a) the production levy listed in column 2 of Schedule 1 that corresponds to the province of the producer set out in column 1; and

- (b) the marketing levy listed in column 2 of Schedule 2 that corresponds to the province of the producer set out in column 1.

### 3 Remittance of levies

(1) In the case of a producer who markets turkeys to a person who is not a processor, the producer must remit the levies referred to in section 2 to the Commodity Board of the relevant province no later than 60 days after the last day of the month in which the producer markets the turkeys.

**Remittance of levies — processor**

(2) In the case of a producer who markets turkeys to a processor, the processor must deduct the levies from the total amount they pay the producer for the turkeys and remit the levies to the Commodity Board of the relevant province no later than 60 days after the last day of the month in which the producer markets the turkeys.

## Processor Levy

### 4 Amount of levy

Each processor who is in a province set out in column 1 of Schedule 2 and who slaughters turkeys marketed to them by a producer must pay, on each kilogram live weight of turkey that they market in interprovincial or export trade, the marketing levy set out in column 3.

### 5 Remittance of levy

Each processor must remit the levy referred to in section 4 to the Commodity Board of the relevant province no later than 60 days after the last day of the month in which the processor markets the turkeys.

## Commodity Boards

### 6 Collection on behalf of the Agency

The Agency, under subsection 10(4) of Part II of the schedule to the *Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency Proclamation*, appoints the Commodity Boards for the regulated area, with their respective concurrence, to collect, on behalf of the Agency, the levies imposed by this Order on producers and processors.

### 7 Remittance — concurrence

(1) If a province’s Commodity Board concurs, in accordance with section 6 with its appointment to collect levies, it must remit to the Agency all levies it collects under sections 3 and 5 no later than the last day of the month in which it collects them.

**Remittance — without concurrence**

(2) Despite sections 3 and 5, if a province’s Commodity Board does not concur with its appointment to collect levies, all producers and processors must remit to the Agency on the day that it directs the levies that must be paid under sections 2 and 4.

## Expiration of Levies

### 8 Production

(1) Paragraph 2(a) ceases to have effect on March 31, 2027.

**Marketing**

(2) Paragraph 2(b) and section 4 cease to have effect on December 31, 2028.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2020-30, s. 1
- SOR/2021-52, s. 1
- SOR/2022-61, s. 1
- SOR/2023-59, s. 1
- SOR/2023-286, s. 1
- SOR/2024-35, s. 1
- SOR/2024-75, s. 1
- SOR/2025-52, s. 1
- SOR/2026-31, s. 1

</details>

## Repeal

### 9 Repeal

The *Canada Turkey Marketing Producers Levy Order*[^] is repealed.

## Coming into Force

### 10 Registration

This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.

> Whereas the Governor in Council has, by the *Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency Proclamation*[^], established the Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency pursuant to subsection 16(1)[^] of the *Farm Products Agencies Act*[^];



## SCHEDULE 1

(Section 2)

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 |
| Item | Province | Levy (cents / kg) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Ontario | 3.85 |
| 2 | Quebec | 3.53 |
| 3 | Nova Scotia | 4.70 |
| 4 | New Brunswick | 4.05 |
| 5 | Manitoba | 5.55 |
| 6 | British Columbia | 4.80 |
| 7 | Saskatchewan | 5.00 |
| 8 | Alberta | 5.35 |

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2019-154, s. 1
- SOR/2020-30, s. 2
- SOR/2022-61, s. 2
- SOR/2023-86, s. 1
- SOR/2025-52, s. 2

</details>


## SCHEDULE 2

(Section 2 and 4)

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
| Item | Province | Levy — Producers (cents / kg) | Levy — Processors (cents / kg) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Ontario | 1.25 | 1.25 |
| 2 | Quebec | 1.25 | 1.25 |
| 3 | Nova Scotia | 1.25 | 1.25 |
| 4 | New Brunswick | 1.25 | 1.25 |
| 5 | Manitoba | 1.25 | 1.25 |
| 6 | British Columbia | 1.25 | 1.25 |
| 7 | Saskatchewan | 1.25 | 1.25 |
| 8 | Alberta | 1.25 | 1.25 |
