---
long_title: "Major Works Order"
instrument_number: "SOR/2019-320"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Major Works Order


## Water Control Structures

### 1 Works — water control structures

The following water control structures are designated as major works:

- (a) dams that
  - (i) are capable of impounding at least 30 000 m^3^ of water, and
  - (ii) are at least 2.5 m high, measured from the bed of the navigable water; and

- (b) structures for the diversion of water if they
  - (i) are placed across a navigable water,
  - (ii) divert water from a navigable water into another navigable water, and
  - (iii) change the water level or water flow of at least one of those navigable waters.

## Ferry Cables

### 2 Works — ferry cables

(1) Ferry cables are designated as major works.

**Definition of **ferry cable****

(2) In this section, a **ferry cable** includes any cable, rod, chain or other device put across, over, under or in any navigable water for working a ferry.

## Bridges

### 3 Works — bridges

(1) The following bridges are designated as major works:

- (a) movable span bridges;

- (b) floating span bridges; and

- (c) fixed span bridges with one or more piers below the ordinary high water mark.

**Definition of **floating span bridge****

(2) In this section, a **floating span bridge** means a bridge that is built on floating anchored foundations.

### 4 Temporary works

Temporary works that are installed for a period of at least 30 consecutive days for the construction, placement, alteration, rebuilding, removal, decommissioning, repair or maintenance of a bridge are designated as major works, unless they are installed during a period when navigation is not possible.

## Causeways

### 5 Works — causeways

Causeways that are placed across a navigable water are designated as major works.

## Aquaculture Facilities

### 6 Works — aquaculture facilities

Aquaculture facilities are designated as major works.

## Coming into Force

### [^]7 S.C. 2019, c. 28

This Order comes into force on the day on which subsection 61(4) of *An Act to enact the Impact Assessment Act and the Canadian Energy Regulator Act, to amend the Navigation Protection Act and to make consequential amendments to other Acts* comes into force, but if it is registered after that day, it comes into force on the day on which it is registered.

> Whereas the Minister of Transport is of the opinion that the works set out in the annexed Order are likely to substantially interfere with navigation;

