---
long_title: "General Import Permit No. 20 — Wheat and Wheat Products and Barley and Barley Products"
instrument_number: "SOR/95-400"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> General Import Permit No. 20 — Wheat and Wheat Products and Barley and Barley Products


### 1

[Repealed, SOR/97-47, s. 2]

## Interpretation

### 2

In this Permit,

**barley and barley products** means the goods set out in items 22 to 31 of the schedule; (**orge et sous-produits de l’orge**)

**bonded warehouse** has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the *Customs Act*; (**entrepôt de stockage**)

**wheat and wheat products** means the goods set out in items 1 to 21 of the schedule. (**froment (blé) et sous-produits du froment (blé)**)

## General

### 3

Subject to section 5, a resident of Canada may, under the authority of this Permit, import into Canada wheat and wheat products and barley and barley products from any country.

### 4

Where goods imported under the authority of this Permit are required to be accounted for in the prescribed form under subsection 32(1), (3) or (5) of the *Customs Act*, the person who accounts for the goods, or who places the goods in a bonded warehouse under subsection 19(2) of that Act, shall inscribe on the prescribed form the statement “Imported under the authority of *General Import Permit No. 20 — Wheat and Wheat Products and Barley and Barley Products*” or “Importé en vertu de la *Licence générale d’importation n^o^ 20 — Froment (blé) et sous-produits du froment (blé) et orge et sous-produits de l’orge*”.

### 5

(1) This Permit only applies to wheat and wheat products and barley and barley products that are accounted for under subsection 32(1), (3) or (5) of the *Customs Act*, or placed in a bonded warehouse under subsection 19(2) of that Act, on or before the day, set out in a notice to be issued by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on which, in the opinion of that Minister, the import access quantity for the period concerned, determined in accordance with subsection 6.2(1) of the *Export and Import Permits Act* in respect of those goods, will have been filled.

(2) In this section, **period concerned** means a period of 12 months beginning on August 1 and ending July 31 of the following year.

## Coming into Force

### 6

(1) Item 9 of the schedule comes into force on the day on which tariff item No. 1902.11.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the *Customs Tariff* comes into force.

(2) Item 19 of the schedule comes into force, in respect of goods that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.90.42 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the *Customs Tariff*, on the day on which that tariff item No. comes into force.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/98-65, s. 1

</details>

> Whereas wheat and wheat products and barley and barley products have been included on the *Import Control List*[^], C.R.C., c. 604;



## SCHEDULE

(Section 2)

### Wheat

### Wheat Products

### Barley

### Barley Products

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/96-57, ss. 1, 2; SOR/97-47, ss. 3, 4; SOR/98-65, ss. 2 to 5; SOR/2002-92, ss. 1 to 4; SOR/2011-310, ss. 1, 2

</details>
