---
long_title: "Canadian Orders, Decorations and Medals Directive, 1998"
instrument_number: "SI/98-55"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Canadian Orders, Decorations and Medals Directive, 1998


## Order of Precedence

### 1

The sequence for wearing the insignia of Canadian orders, decorations and medals, and the post-nominal letters associated with the orders, decorations and medals, are the following:

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SI/2018-98

</details>

### 2

The Bar to the Special Service Medal is worn centred on the ribbon. If there is more than one Bar, they are spaced evenly on the ribbon with the most recent uppermost.

### 3

Commonwealth orders, decorations and medals the award of which is approved by the Government of Canada are worn after the Canadian orders, decorations and medals listed in section 1, precedence in each category being set by date of appointment or award.

### 4

Foreign orders, decorations and medals the award of which is approved by the Government of Canada are worn after the orders, decorations and medals referred to in sections 1 and 3, precedence in each category being set by date of appointment or award.

### 5

Notwithstanding sections 1, 3 and 4, a person who, prior to June 1, 1972, was a member of a British order or the recipient of a British decoration or medal referred to in this section, may wear the insignia of the decoration or medal together with the insignia of any Canadian order, decoration or medal that the person is entitled to wear, the proper sequence being the following:

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SI/2018-98

</details>

### 6

The Newfoundland Volunteer War Service Medal has the same precedence as the Canadian Volunteer Service Medal.

### 7

The insignia of orders, decorations and medals not listed in this Directive, as well as foreign awards the award of which has not been approved by the Government of Canada, shall not be mounted or worn in conjunction with the orders, decorations and medals listed in this Directive.

### 8

The insignia of orders, decorations and medals shall not be worn by anyone other than the recipient of the orders, decorations or medals.

## Repeal

### 9

The Canadian Orders, Decorations and Medals Directive[^] is repealed.

> His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Prime Minister, hereby makes the annexed *Canadian Orders, Decorations and Medals Directive, 1998*.

