---
long_title: "Exemption Order in Respect of Labelling Requirements for Certain Natural Health Products"
instrument_number: "SOR/2025-94"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Exemption Order in Respect of Labelling Requirements for Certain Natural Health Products


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

(1) The following definitions apply in this Order.

**commencement day** means the day on which sections 17 to 22 of the *Regulations Amending the Natural Health Products Regulations*, made by Order in Council P.C. 2022-710 of June 20, 2022 and registered as SOR/2022-146, come into force. (**date de référence**)

**former Regulations** means the Regulations as they read immediately before the commencement day. (**ancien règlement**)

**new Regulations** means the Regulations as they read on the commencement day. (**nouveau règlement**)

**product licence** means a product licence issued under section 7 of the Regulations. (**licence de mise en marché**)

**Regulations** means the *Natural Health Products Regulations*. (**Règlement**)

**Words and expressions**

(2) Unless the context otherwise requires, words and expressions used in this Order have the same meaning as in the Regulations.

## Conditional Exemption

### 2 Exemption — certain natural health products

(1) Subject to the condition set out in subsection (2), every natural health product for which a product licence has been issued on or after the day on which this Order comes into force and that is not labelled in accordance with the new Regulations is exempt from the application of sections 86 to 94 of the new Regulations as they apply to labelling.

**Condition — former labelling requirements**

(2) The natural health product must, when it is sold, be labelled in accordance with the former Regulations.

**Non-application of condition**

(3) The condition does not apply if the sale of the natural health product is to a manufacturer or distributor.

## Repeal

### 3

This Order is repealed on June 21, 2028.

## Coming into Force

### 4 Coming into force

This Order comes into force on June 21, 2025, but if it is registered after that day, it comes into force on the day on which it is registered.

> Whereas the Minister of Health believes on reasonable grounds that the annexed Order is necessary for a health or safety purpose or is otherwise in the public interest;

