---
long_title: "Nova Scotia Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2004-305"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Nova Scotia Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**Act** means the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*. (**Loi**)

**NSSOIRC** means the Nova Scotia Sex Offender Information Registration Centre administered by RCMP “H” Division. (**Bureau d’inscription**)

**RCMP** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (**GRC**)

## Report and Notification by Telephone

### 2

(1) A sex offender whose main residence is located in the Province of Nova Scotia may make any report required under paragraph 4.1(a) or (b) or section 4.3 of the Act, or provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act, by telephone to the NSSOIRC.

(2) For greater certainty, subsection (1) does not remove the requirement for the sex offender to report in person under paragraph 4.1(c) of the Act.

## Persons Authorized to Collect Information

### 3

The following persons are authorized in the Province of Nova Scotia to collect information for the purposes of the Act:

- (a) a member of the RCMP; and

- (b) a police officer appointed to or employed by a municipal police force.

## Persons Authorized to Register Information

### 4

Persons employed at the NSSOIRC whose duties include the registration of information are authorized in the Province of Nova Scotia to register that information for the purposes of the Act.

## Registration Centres

### 5

The following locations and each RCMP detachment in Nova Scotia are designated as registration centres for the area of that province that they serve:

- (a) the NSSOIRC;

- (b) the Office of the Cape Breton Regional Police, Central Division;

- (c) the Office of the Halifax Regional Police Department; and

- (d) the Office of New Glasgow Police Service.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2020-244, s. 1

</details>

## Coming into Force

### [^]6

These Regulations come into force on the day on which the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*, chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 2004, comes into force.

> The Lieutenant Governor in Council of Nova Scotia, on the report and recommendation of the Nova Scotia Minister of Justice and pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*[^], hereby makes the annexed *Nova Scotia Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations*.



## SCHEDULE
