---
long_title: "British Columbia Vegetable Order"
instrument_number: "SOR/2020-259"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> British Columbia Vegetable Order


### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in this Order.

**Act** means the *Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act*, RSBC 1996, c. 330. (**Loi**)

**Commodity Board** means the British Columbia Vegetable Marketing Commission or its successor entity. (**Office**)

**Supervisory Board** means the British Columbia Farm Industry Review Board or its successor entity. (**Organisme de surveillance**)

**vegetable** means any vegetable produced in British Columbia and includes strawberries intended expressly for manufacturing purposes and potatoes. (**légume**)

### 2 Interprovincial and Export Trade

The Commodity Board and the Supervisory Board are authorized to regulate the marketing of vegetables in interprovincial and export trade and, for that purpose, with respect to persons and property situated within British Columbia, exercise all or any powers like the powers exercisable by them in relation to the marketing of vegetables locally within that province under the Act.

### 3 Levies and Charges

The Commodity Board and the Supervisory Board, in relation to the powers granted to them by section 2, are authorized to

- (a) fix, impose and collect levies or charges from persons within British Columbia who are engaged in the production or marketing of whole vegetables or any part of vegetables and, for that purpose, classify those persons into groups and fix the levies or charges payable by the members of the different groups in different amounts; and

- (b) use the levies or charges for their purposes, including the creation of reserves, the payment of expenses and losses resulting from the sale or disposal of any vegetable and the equalization or adjustment among vegetable producers of moneys realized from the sale of vegetables during any period that they may determine.

## Repeal

### 4

The *British Columbia Vegetable Order*[^] is repealed.

## Coming into Force

### 5 Registration

This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 2[^] of the *Agricultural Products Marketing Act*[^], makes the annexed *British Columbia Vegetable Order*.

