---
long_title: "Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff Withdrawal Order (2022-2)"
instrument_number: "SOR/2022-209"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff Withdrawal Order (2022-2)


## Definitions

### 1

The following definitions apply in this Order.

**goods that originate in Belarus** means goods that are eligible to be marked as goods of Belarus in accordance with the *Determination of Country of Origin for the Purpose of Marking Goods (Non-CUSMA Countries) Regulations*. (**marchandises originaires du Bélarus**)

**goods that originate in Russia** means goods that are eligible to be marked as goods of Russia in accordance with the *Determination of Country of Origin for the Purpose of Marking Goods (Non-CUSMA Countries) Regulations*. (**marchandises originaires de la Russie**)

## Extension of Benefit

### 2

Entitlement to the benefit of the Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff is extended in respect of goods that originate in Belarus and goods that originate in Russia.

## Withdrawal of Benefit

### 3

Entitlement to the benefit of the Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff is withdrawn in respect of goods that originate in Belarus and goods that originate in Russia.

## Exemption

### 4

Section 3 does not apply to goods of tariff item No. 2844.43.00.

## Amendments to the Schedule to the Customs Tariff

### 5

[Amendments]

### 6

[Amendments]

## Repeal

### 7

The *Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff Withdrawal Order (2022-1)*[^] is repealed.

## Coming into Force

### 8

(1) Subject to subsection (2), this Order comes into force at 11:59:59 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on the day on which it is registered.

(2) Sections 3,4 and 6 come into force at 00:00:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on the day after the day on which this Order is registered.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, makes the annexed *Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff Withdrawal Order (2022-2)* under paragraphs 31(1)(a)[^] and (b)[^] of the *Customs Tariff*[^].

