---
long_title: "Exemption List Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/99-13"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Exemption List Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**control product** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the *Pest Control Products Act*. (**produits antiparasitaires**)

**dugout** means an excavation designed to hold water for the maintenance of public roads or consumption by livestock. (**étang-réservoir**)

**footprint** means the area of land occupied by a structure at ground level. (**superficie au sol**)

**hazardous material** means a toxic substance within the meaning of section 64 of the *Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999*. (**matières dangereuses**)

**heritage building** means a building that has been designated as a heritage building by a regulatory authority. (**bâtiment du patrimoine**)

**hook-up** means a structure or line that connects a building to a main gas, sewer, water, electrical transmission or telecommunication line. (**raccordement**)

**international electrical transmission line** means an electrical transmission line constructed or operated for the purpose of transmitting electricity from a place in Canada to a place outside Canada or to a place in Canada from a place outside Canada. (**ligne internationale de transport d’électricité**)

**irrigation structure** means a buried pipeline, a pipe, a pump, a pump house, a reservoir, a drain or a canal lined with asphalt, wood, concrete or other material, that is used for irrigating agricultural land. (**structure d’irrigation**)

**limited expansion** means an increase of 10 per cent or less in the exterior dimensions or production capacity of a structure. (**agrandissement de faible envergure**)

**modification**, in respect of a structure, means a change, other than an expansion, that does not alter the purpose or function of the structure. (**modification**)

**national historic site** means a place that is marked or commemorated under paragraph 3(a) of the *Historic Sites and Monuments Act* and land set apart as a national historic site under subsection 42(1) of the *Canada National Parks Act*. (**lieu historique national**)

**national park** means a park described in Schedule 1 to the *Canada National Parks Act* and any other park established under a federal-territorial agreement. (**parc national**)

**national park reserve** means a reserve described in Schedule 2 to the *Canada National Parks Act* and any other reserve established under a federal-territorial agreement. (**réserve foncière**)

**Northwest Territories territorial park** has the meaning assigned by the definition **Territorial Park** in section 1 of the *Territorial Parks Act*, R.S.N.W.T. 1988, c. T-4. (**parc territorial des Territoires du Nord-Ouest**)

**oil and gas pipeline** means a pipeline that is used, or is intended to be used, for the transmission of hydrocarbons alone or with any other commodity. (**pipeline d’hydrocarbures**)

**water body** means an inland water body in a liquid or frozen state, including the portion of a reservoir and a wetland below its high-water mark, but does not include a sewage or waste treatment lagoon, dugout or mine tailings pond. (**plan d’eau**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2009-98, s. 1
- SOR/2024-47, s. 2

</details>

## General

### 2

Proposed or existing developments set out in Schedule 1 that are situated outside a national park, national park reserve or national historic site are developments for which preliminary screenings are not required by reason that their impact on the environment of the Mackenzie Valley is insignificant.

### 3

Proposed or existing developments set out in Schedule 2 that are situated in a national park, national park reserve, national historic site or Northwest Territories territorial park are developments for which preliminary screenings are not required by reason that their impact on the environment of the Mackenzie Valley is insignificant.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2024-47, s. 3

</details>

## Coming into Force

### 4

These Regulations come into force on the day on which Part 5 of the *Mackenzie Valley Resource Management Act* comes into force.

> Whereas, pursuant to subsection 143(1) of the *Mackenzie Valley Resource Management Act*[^], the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development has consulted with the Minister of Resources, Wildlife and Economic Development of the Northwest Territories and with the first nations with regard to the annexed *Exemption List Regulations*;



## SCHEDULE 1  Exempted Developments Not Situated in National Parks, National Park Reserves or National Historic Sites

(Section 2)


<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2009-98, s. 2; SOR/2014-73, s. 9
- SOR/2024-47, s. 4
- SOR/2024-47, s. 5
- SOR/2024-47, s. 6
- SOR/2024-47, s. 7
- SOR/2024-47, s. 8

</details>


## SCHEDULE 2  Exempted Developments Situated in National Parks, National Park Reserves, National Historic Sites and Northwest Territories Territorial Parks

(Section 3)


<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2009-98, s. 3
- SOR/2024-47, s. 9
- SOR/2024-47, s. 10
- SOR/2024-47, s. 11(E)
- SOR/2024-47, s. 12
- SOR/2024-47, s. 13
- SOR/2024-47, s. 14
- SOR/2024-47, s. 15
- SOR/2024-47, s. 16
- SOR/2024-47, s. 17

</details>
