---
long_title: "Support Orders and Support Provisions (Banks and Authorized Foreign Banks) Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2002-264"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Support Orders and Support Provisions (Banks and Authorized Foreign Banks) Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definition of **Act**

In these Regulations, **Act** means the *Bank Act*.

## Designated Offices of Banks

### 2 Designation by bank

(1) Every bank that carries on business in a province must, for the purpose of subsection 462(3) of the Act, designate an office of the bank in respect of the province for the service of enforcement notices.

**Limitation on designation**

(2) If a bank has one or more branches in a province, the office that the bank designates in respect of the province must be one of those branches.

**Time for designation**

(3) The designation must be made on or before the later of the last day of the three-month period

- (a) beginning on the day on which these Regulations come into force, and

- (b) beginning on the day on which the bank begins to carry on business in the province.

## Designated Offices of Authorized Foreign Banks

### 3 Designation by authorized foreign bank

(1) Every authorized foreign bank that carries on business in a province must, for the purpose of subsection 579(3) of the Act, designate an office of the authorized foreign bank in respect of the province for the service of enforcement notices.

**Limitation on designation**

(2) If an authorized foreign bank has one or more branches in a province, the office that the authorized foreign bank designates in respect of the province must be one of those branches.

**Time for designation**

(3) The designation must be made on or before the later of the last day of the three month period

- (a) beginning on the day on which these Regulations come into force, and

- (b) beginning on the day on which the authorized foreign bank begins to carry on business in the province.

## Publicizing Locations of Designated Offices

### 4 Publicizing requirements

(1) Every bank and every authorized foreign bank that designates an office under section 2 or 3 must publish the name and address of the designated office

- (a) in the *Canada Gazette*, Part I; and

- (b) at least once a week for four consecutive weeks in one or more newspapers in general circulation in the province in respect of which the office is designated.

**Requirements in case of change**

(2) If a bank or authorized foreign bank changes the office that it has designated in respect of a province, or changes the name or address of a designated office, it must publish a description of the change in the manner provided for under subsection (1).

**Time for publicizing**

(3) The requirement to publicize under subsections (1) or (2) must be completed within three months after the designation or the change, as the case may be.

### 5 Internet site

Every bank and every authorized foreign bank must post and maintain, on its primary Internet site, an up-to-date list of the names and addresses of its offices designated under these Regulations.

## Information to Accompany Enforcement Notices in Respect of Support Orders and Support Provisions

### 6 Information for identification of debtor

For the purpose of subsection 462(3) or 579(3) of the Act, the written statement that accompanies an enforcement notice must contain the following information:

- (a) the full name of the person who is required to make a payment under the support order or support provision;

- (b) the latest known address of that person; and

- (c) either
  - (i) the social insurance number of that person, or
  - (ii) the date of birth of that person.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2007-158, s. 1(F)

</details>

## Coming into Force

### 7

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to subsections 462(5)[^] and 579(5)[^] of the *Bank Act*[^], hereby makes the annexed *Support Orders and Support Provisions (Banks and Authorized Foreign Banks) Regulations*.

