---
long_title: "Charcoal Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2016-178"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Charcoal Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**charcoal** means charcoal for use in domestic cooking or heating. (**charbon de bois**)

**principal display surface** means the surface of a container containing charcoal that is displayed or visible at the time the charcoal is sold to the consumer or when it is used. (**aire d’affichage principale**)

## Requirements

### 2 Warning

The container in which the charcoal is sold to the consumer must, on each principal display surface, carry a warning in English and in French that meets the requirements of section 3 and clearly conveys the following information:

- (a) toxic fumes may occur and cause death if the charcoal is burned without adequate ventilation; and

- (b) the charcoal should not be used for cooking or heating indoors without a ventilation system that carries all the fumes outdoors.

### 3 Presentation

(1) The warning must

- (a) begin with the words “Warning” in English and “Avertissement” in French;

- (b) be easily legible and shown clearly and prominently;

- (c) be set apart from other information or visual images on the container; and

- (d) be enclosed by a borderline.

**Colour**

(2) The warning and the borderline enclosing it must be of a colour that contrasts sharply with the background on which they are shown.

**Typeface and letter size**

(3) The warning must be shown in bold-face or medium-face type with

- (a) the words “Warning” and “Avertissement” in letters of not less than 9 mm in height; and

- (b) the information set out in paragraph 2(b) in letters of not less than 4.5 mm in height.

## Repeal

### 4

[Repeal]

## Coming into Force

### 5 Registration

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the *Canada Consumer Product Safety Act*[^], makes the annexed *Charcoal Regulations*.

