---
long_title: "Fort William First Nation Sawmill Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2011-86"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Fort William First Nation Sawmill Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

(1) The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**incorporated laws** means the laws of Ontario specified in Schedule 1, as amended from time to time. (**textes incorporés**)

**project lands** means all those parcels or tracts of land in the Province of Ontario being part of the Fort William Indian Reserve No. 52 and being part of the Lands Patented to the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Co., City of Thunder Bay, District of Thunder Bay, designated as parts 7, 11, 19, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 32 on Reference Plan 55R-11689 (CLSR 86142). (**terres du projet**)

**Successors**

(2) A reference to the Fort William First Nation, LP shall be read as including any of its successors, any other person or entity to whom the Fort William First Nation, LP assigns a lease of the project lands, or any other person or entity with which the Government of Canada enters into a lease of the project lands.

**Provincial interpretation**

(3) The incorporated laws, as adapted by Schedule 2, shall be interpreted in accordance with the *Legislation Act, 2006* (S.O. 2006, c. 21, Schedule F), as amended from time to time.

## Application

### 2 Incorporation by reference

The incorporated laws, with the adaptations set out in Schedule 2, apply with respect to the project lands.

### 3 Fees

Fees, costs or other charges payable under an incorporated law shall be paid to the person or body specified in that law.

### 4 Interpretation

For greater certainty,

- (a) a person or body that has a power, duty or function under the incorporated laws has the same power, duty or function under these Regulations, subject to the adaptations specified in Schedule 2;

- (b) an official who is appointed or designated, or a body, fund, program, registry or index record that is established, under the incorporated laws is deemed to have been appointed, designated or established for the purposes of these Regulations;

- (c) in Schedule 1, a reference to regulations made under an Act includes all regulations made under that Act after the coming into force of these Regulations, unless excepted in Schedule 1 or 2;

- (d) any regulation made under the authority of a provision or regulation that is excepted from incorporation by reference in Schedule 1 is also excepted from incorporation by reference in these Regulations;

- (e) a reference in an incorporated law, or in any notice, form, instrument or other document issued under an incorporated law, to a law (including any provision of one) of Ontario incorporated in these Regulations shall be read as a reference to that law as adapted by these Regulations;

- (f) a reference to an incorporated law or a provision of one shall be read as a reference to the law or provision as amended from time to time; and

- (g) an incorporated law or a provision of one applies only if it is in force as a law of Ontario.

### 5 Offence proceedings

(1) The *Provincial Offences Act* (R.S.O. 1990, c. P.33), any regulations made under that Act, any Act of Ontario referred to in that Act or its regulations relating to proceedings in respect of offences under a law of Ontario, and the applicable rules of court under the *Courts of Justice Act* (R.S.O. 1990, c. C.43), all as amended from time to time, apply in respect of alleged offences under these Regulations.

**References in documents**

(2) A reference to these Regulations may be made in any notice, form or other document issued with respect to a proceeding concerning an alleged offence under these Regulations, but the absence of such a reference does not affect the validity of a proceeding concerning that offence.

**References to laws**

(3) In any notice, form or other document issued with respect to a proceeding concerning an alleged offence under these Regulations, a reference to a law of Ontario or a provision of one incorporated in these Regulations shall be read as a reference to that law or provision as adapted by these Regulations.

## Excluded Regulations

### 6 Exclusion

The *Indian Reserve Waste Disposal Regulations* do not apply with respect to the project lands.

## Coming into Force

### [^]7 Coming into force

These Regulations come into force on the setting apart by the Governor General in Council of the project lands as reserve lands, which takes effect on registration of the Transfer/Deed of Land by which the project lands are acquired by the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, on behalf of Her Majesty in right of Canada, from the Fort William First Nation Development Corp.

> Whereas in accordance with paragraph 5(a) of the *First Nations Commercial and Industrial Development Act*[^] the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development has received a resolution of the council of the Fort William First Nation requesting that the Minister recommend to the Governor in Council the making of the annexed *Fort William First Nation Sawmill Regulations*;



## SCHEDULE 1  Incorporated Laws

(Subsection 1(1) and paragraphs 4(c) and (d))

### Statutes and Regulations

### Other Instruments

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-250, s. 1

</details>


## SCHEDULE 2  Adaptations

(Subsection 1(3), section 2 and paragraphs 4(a) and (c))

### Adaptations Applicable to All Incorporated Laws

### 1 Owner

A reference to an owner, in relation to the project lands, shall be read as including the Fort William First Nation, LP.

### 2 Exclusion

A reference to an owner or to any other person or entity does not include Her Majesty in right of Canada or an official of the Government of Canada.

### 3 Limitation on inspections

(1) A power to make inspections, including the power to enter a place, does not include a power to enter, or inspect anything in, a federal government office, or to enter any place or inspect anything in the possession of the Fort William First Nation.

**Exception**

(2) Subsection (1) does not preclude the entry into any place occupied by, or the inspection of anything in the possession of, the Fort William First Nation, LP.

### 4 Fire chief

The fire chief appointed by the Council of the City of Thunder Bay under section 6 of the *Fire Protection and Prevention Act, 1997* (S.O. 1997, c. 4), is deemed to have also been appointed as a fire chief for the purposes of the incorporated laws.

### Adaptations to the Clean Water Act, 2006

### 5 Unorganized territory

Part IV of the Act applies to the project lands as if they were an unorganized territory.

### 6 Acquisition of land

In section 92, a reference to “acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, or, subject to the *Expropriations Act*” shall be read as a reference to “acquire by lease or, subject to the *Expropriations Act* and section 35 of the *Indian Act* (Canada)”.

### 7 References to “another Act”

In subsection 105(1), a reference to “a provision of another Act or a regulation or instrument made, issued or otherwise created under another Act” shall be read as a reference to “a provision — incorporated by reference in these Regulations — of another Act or of a regulation or instrument made, issued or otherwise created under another Act”.

### Adaptations to the Environmental Assessment Act

### 8 Limit of application

The *Environmental Assessment Act* (R.S.O. 1990, c. E.18) and its regulations apply only in circumstances where the *Impact Assessment Act* does not apply.

### Adaptations to the Environmental Protection Act and Regulations

### Adaptations to the Act

### 9 Period of 25 years

In section 46, the reference to “a period of twenty-five years” shall be read as a reference to “a period equal to the remainder of the term of any lease of the project lands to the Fort William First Nation, LP or twenty-five years, whichever is shorter”.

### 10 Land registry office

In subsections 197(2) and (5), a reference to “the proper land registry office” shall be read as a reference to “the Reserve Land Register or Surrendered and Designated Lands Register, maintained by the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development”.

### Adaptations to the Air Pollution — Local Air Quality Regulations (O. Reg. 419/05)

### 11 Municipality

In subclause 34(2)(b)(iv), a reference to “each municipality in which the source of contaminant is located” shall be read as a reference to “the Fort William First Nation”.

### Adaptations to the Lakes and Rivers Improvement Act

### 12 Limitation on production of documents

In clause 20(2)(b), the power to require the production of any document or thing does not include a power to require the production of any document or thing located in a federal government office.

### Adaptations to the Ontario Water Resources Act

### 13 Ontario

In subsections 29(1) and (2), a reference to “Ontario” shall be read as a reference to “the project lands”.

### 14 Limitation on orders

Under section 61, no direction applies to Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada or to an official of the Government of Canada.

### 15 Land registry office

In subsections 103(2) and (5), a reference to “the proper land registry office” shall be read as a reference to “the Reserve Land Register or Surrendered and Designated Lands Register, maintained by the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development”.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-250, s. 2

</details>
