---
long_title: "Newfoundland and Labrador Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2004-322"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Newfoundland and Labrador Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**Act** means the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*. (**Loi**)

**NLSOIRC** means the Newfoundland and Labrador Sex Offender Information Registration Centre administered by RCMP “B” Division headquarters. (**BIRDSTNL**)

**RCMP** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (**GRC**)

## Report and Notification by Telephone

### 2

A sex offender whose main residence is located in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador may make any report required under paragraph 4.1(a) or (b) or section 4.3 of the Act, or provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act, by telephone to the NLSOIRC.

## Persons Authorized to Collect Information

### 3

The following persons are authorized in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador to collect information for the purposes of the Act:

- (a) a member of the RCMP;

- (b) a police officer within the meaning of paragraph 2(l) of the *Royal Newfoundland Constabulary Act, 1992*, Statutes of Newfoundland and Labrador, c. R-17, as amended from time to time; and

- (c) a person employed at the NLSOIRC whose duties include collection of information under the Act.

## Persons Authorized to Register Information

### 4

Persons employed at the NLSOIRC whose duties include the registration of information are authorized in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador to register information for the purposes of the Act.

## Registration Centres

### 5

(1) The places set out in the schedule are designated as registration centres in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador.

(2) The designated area of service for each registration centre is the entire Province of Newfoundland and Labrador.

## Coming into Force

### [^]6

These Regulations come into force on the later of the day on which the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*, chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 2004, comes into force and the day on which these Regulations are registered.

> The Lieutenant Governor in Council of Newfoundland and Labrador, pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*[^], hereby makes the annexed *Newfoundland and Labrador Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations*.



## SCHEDULE

(Subsection 5(1))

| Item | Designated Place |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | The NLSOIRC |
| 2 | The following RCMP district offices:Avalon East District Office, HolyroodBay St. George District Office, StephenvilleBurin Peninsula District Office, MarystownClarenville-Bonavista District Office, ClarenvilleDeer Lake District Office, Deer LakeGander-Lewisporte District Office, GanderGrand Falls-Windsor District Office, Grand Falls-WindsorLabrador District Office, Goose BayNorthern Peninsula District Office, Port SaundersPlacentia-Whitbourne District Office, PlacentiaTrinity-Conception District Office, Harbour Grace |
| 3 | The RCMP detachment in any of the following locations:Bell IslandBurgeoCartwrightChannel Port Aux BasquesFogo IslandForteauHarbour BretonHopedaleMakkovickMary’s HarbourNainNatuashishRigoletSheshatshiuSpringdaleSt. AnthonyTwillingate |
| 4 | The headquarters of the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary in any of the following locations:Corner BrookLabrador CitySt. John’s |
