---
long_title: "Nova Scotia Hog Marketing Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order"
instrument_number: "SOR/2018-75"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Nova Scotia Hog Marketing Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order


## Interpretation

### 1

The following definitions apply in this Order.

**contract grower** means a person who raises hogs that they do not own on behalf of a producer. **(éleveur-contractant)**

**cull boar** means an uncastrated hog that is no longer used for breeding and is marketed for slaughter. **(verrat de réforme)**

**cull sow** means a female hog that is no longer used for breeding and is marketed for slaughter. **(truie de réforme)**

**feeder hog** means a hog that is at least 30 days old and is marketed for hog production instead of for slaughter. **(porc d’engraissement)**

**market hog** means a hog other than a weanling, feeder hog, cull sow, stag or cull boar. **(porc de marché)**

**producer** means a person who owns hogs that are bred or raised in Nova Scotia for commercial purposes or that are produced or marketed in Nova Scotia but does not include a processor or contract grower. **(producteur)**

**stag** means a castrated hog that has been used for breeding. **(verrat castré)**

**weanling** means a hog that is at least 10 days old but is younger than 30 days old. **(porc sevré)**

## Levies

### 2

Every producer shall pay to the Commodity Board the following levies in respect of any hogs sold by the producer in interprovincial and export trade:

- (a) $0.25 for weanlings; and

- (b) $2.00 for stags, cull boars, feeder hogs, market hogs and cull sows.

## Remittance of Levies and Report

### 3

Every producer shall, for the reporting periods set out in column 1 of the schedule and by the deadline set out in column 2 of the schedule,

- (a) remit to the Commodity Board the levies referred to in section 2; and

- (b) provide the Commodity Board with a quarterly report that sets out the number of weanlings, stags, cull boars, feeder hogs, market hogs and cull sows sold by the producer in interprovincial and export trade.

## Coming into Force

### 4

This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.

> Pork Nova Scotia, formerly known as the Pork Producers Marketing Board of Nova Scotia, pursuant to sections 3 and 4[^] of the *Nova Scotia Hog Order*[^], makes the annexed *Nova Scotia Hog Marketing Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order*.



## Schedule

(Section 3)

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 |
| Quarter | Quarterly Reporting Periods | Deadline for Levy Remittances and Quarterly Reports |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | January 1 to March 31 | April 30 |
| 2 | April 1 to June 30 | July 31 |
| 3 | July 1 to September 30 | October 31 |
| 4 | October 1 to December 31 | January 31 |
