---
long_title: "Office of the Governor General’s Secretary Employment Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2006-114"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Office of the Governor General’s Secretary Employment Regulations


## Application

### 1

These Regulations apply to the positions designated by position numbers 00025450 to 00025460 in the Office of the Governor General’s Secretary and the persons occupying them that are excluded from the application of the *Public Service Employment Act*, with the exception of the definitions **Commission** and **public service** in subsection 2(1) and of sections 17 to 21, 54 and 55, 68 to 72, subsection 111(1), sections 112 to 116, section 118, sections 120 to 122, section 134 and 135 of that Act.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2010-198, s. 1; SOR/2017-81, s. 1

</details>

### 1.1

Sections 17, 55, 72, 134 and 135 of the *Public Service Employment Act* apply to the Governor General as if the Governor General was a deputy head.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2010-198, s. 1

</details>

### 1.2

Sections 112 to 116, 118, 120 to 122 and 135 of the *Public Service Employment Act* apply to a person occupying a position referred to in section 1 as if they were an employee.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2010-198, s. 1

</details>

## Dealing with Excluded Positions and Persons

### 2

Positions referred to in section 1 may be filled by persons appointed by the Governor General or a person authorized to do so by the Governor General.

### 3

(1) A person occupying a position referred to in section 1 may only be dismissed or laid-off if the person is given at least one day’s notice.

(2) The person may only be dismissed for cause.

(3) The person may only be laid off if the services of the person are no longer required in the Office by reason of lack of work or the discontinuance of a function.

### 4

A person occupying a position referred to in section 1 ceases to be so employed 30 days after the day on which the Governor General who held office at the time of the person’s appointment ceases to hold office.

### 4.1

A person who has been employed for at least three years in one of the positions referred to in section 1, or in one or more of those positions consecutively, may

- (a) during a period of one year after they cease to be so employed, participate in an advertised appointment process for which the organizational criterion established under section 34 of the *Public Service Employment Act* entitles all employees to be considered, as long as they meet any other criteria established under that section; and

- (b) make a complaint under section 77 of that Act.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2010-198, s. 2

</details>

## Repeal

### 5

[Repeal]

## Coming into Force

### 6

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Canadian Heritage and the Public Service Commission, pursuant to section 21 of the *Public Service Employment Act*[^], hereby makes the annexed *Office of the Governor General’s Secretary Employment Regulations*.

