---
long_title: "Fishing and Recreational Harbours Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/78-767"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Fishing and Recreational Harbours Regulations


### 1

[Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 2]

## Interpretation

### 2

In these Regulations,

**Act** means the *Fishing and Recreational Harbours Act*; (**loi**)

**berthage** means a charge for the occupation by a vessel of a berth or other space at a harbour; (**droit d’amarrage**)

**enforcement officer** means a person designated as such pursuant to section 10 of the Act; (**agent d’exécution**)

**floating home**[Repealed, SOR/98-387, s. 1]

**harbour** means a scheduled harbour; (**port**)

**harbour manager** means a person appointed under section 27 of the Act or under any other Act of Parliament to manage a harbour; (**responsable du port**)

**harbour property** means any real property at a harbour, including marine facilities; (**propriété portuaire**)

**lease** means a lease referred to in section 8 of the Act; (**bail**)

**length** means
  - (a) in the case of a commercial fishing vessel, the length shown in the fishing vessel registration of that vessel, and
  - (b) in the case of a recreational or other vessel, the horizontal distance measured between perpendiculars erected at the extreme ends of the vessel; (**longueur**)

**licence** means a licence referred to in section 8 of the Act; (**permis**)

**owner** means,
  - (a) in the case of a vessel, the master, operator or person in charge of the vessel, and
  - (b) in the case of goods, the agent, consignor, consignee or carrier of the goods; (**propriétaire**)

**wharfage** means a charge for placing goods on a wharf or for loading goods on or unloading goods from a vessel at a wharf. (**droit de quayage**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/83-598, s. 1; SOR/98-387, s. 1

</details>

### 3

For the purposes of the definition **scheduled harbour** in section 2 of the Act, the harbours set out in Schedule I are fishing or recreational harbours.

## Application

### 4

These Regulations apply to every scheduled harbour.

## Leases and Licences

### 5

No lease or licence shall be for any term exceeding 20 years except with the approval of the Governor in Council.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/83-598, s. 2

</details>

### 6

No lease or licence of a harbour or any part of a harbour shall be granted except on terms and conditions that ensure access by the public to the harbour.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/80-498, s. 1

</details>

### 7

(1) No person shall erect, maintain or occupy a building, structure or other work at a scheduled harbour except under a lease or licence.

(2) No person shall, except with the permission in writing of the harbour manager, install electric power lines, water supply lines or drainage pipes on harbour property.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/79-396, s. 1

</details>

### 7.1

No person shall berth, in a harbour, a vessel to be used as a residence unless there is an authorization to berth the vessel in that harbour under a lease or licence.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/98-387, s. 2

</details>

## General

### 8

(1) No person shall bring dangerous, explosive or combustible goods on harbour property unless the goods are required for the ordinary purposes of a vessel in a harbour and prior notice has been given to the harbour manager of the proposed location of the goods and of the manner in which they will be handled and dealt with.

(2) Where the harbour manager has reasonable grounds to believe that the safety of the harbour or of the public may be endangered by the proposed location of any dangerous, explosive or combustible goods on harbour property or by the manner in which such goods are to be handled or dealt with on harbour property, he shall prohibit the goods from being brought on the harbour property or being so handled or dealt with, as the case may be.

(3) No person shall bring on harbour property goods the entry of which has been prohibited pursuant to subsection (2) or handle or deal with goods in a manner that has been prohibited pursuant to that subsection.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/80-498, s. 2

</details>

### 9

No person shall, in a harbour,

- (a) have an open fire on a vessel, or

- (b) berth a vessel that, because of its size or dangerous condition, may endanger or damage the harbour facilities or other vessels;

without the approval of the harbour manager.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/80-498, s. 2; SOR/83-598, s. 3; SOR/98-387, s. 3(E)

</details>

### 10

Where harbour property is damaged in any manner by a vessel or vehicle, or by the use of machinery or equipment, the damage shall be reported forthwith to the harbour manager by the master or other person in charge of the vessel or the operator of the vehicle, or the person who was in charge of the machinery or equipment at the time the damage occurred.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/80-498, s. 3

</details>

### 11

No person shall remove, damage or destroy any notice posted at a harbour by the Minister.

### 12

[Repealed, SOR/80-498, s. 4]

### 13

No person shall obstruct or impede in any way the docking or undocking of any vessel in a harbour.

### 14

Where a harbour manager has directed orally or by notice in writing the place where, the manner in which and the time when a vessel is to be berthed, moored, moved, loaded or unloaded, no person shall berth, moor, move, load or unload a vessel except as so directed.

### 15

[Repealed, SOR/98-387, s. 4]

### 16

No person shall, on harbour property, without the approval of the harbour manager

- (a) engage in equipment or machinery tests that are likely to endanger harbour property or vessels or persons in the harbour; or

- (b) engage in repairs to the hull, machinery, tackle or gear of a vessel beyond normal routine maintenance.

## Mooring Vessels

### 17

No person shall permit the lines of a vessel that is berthed or moored at a harbour to be made fast to anything other than the facilities provided for berthing or mooring or permit such lines to lie across any wharf or across any channel in such a manner as to obstruct or interfere with any other vessel, vehicle or person.

### 18

Where a vessel is moored in a harbour, the master or person in charge shall, where necessary, permit another vessel to move alongside and make fast to it.

### 19

Where two or more vessels are lying at the same wharf, one vessel outside the other, and the vessel on the outside does not have a gangway extending to the wharf, the person in charge of the vessel lying nearer to the wharf shall allow persons on the vessel farther from the wharf free and unencumbered passage over its deck.

### 20

(1) Where a vessel is made fast to or secured alongside another vessel, one vessel outside the other,

- (a) the lines of the vessel that is so made fast or secured shall not, except in an emergency, be cut or cast off by any person unless that person gives notice of his intention to do so to the master or person in charge of that vessel; and

- (b) the master or person in charge of the inside vessel, when ready to leave harbour, may move any outside vessel if the owner or persons in charge of any such vessel cannot be located.

(2) Where a person moves a vessel pursuant to paragraph (1)(b), that person shall resecure any vessel that has been so moved.

### 21

(1) Where goods or articles fall overboard from a vessel, the master or person in charge of the vessel shall make every reasonable effort to recover those goods or articles.

(2) Where the master or person in charge referred to in subsection (1) is unable to recover any goods or articles referred to therein, he shall report such failure to the harbour manager.

### 22

No person shall start a fire on harbour property except at such time and in such place and manner as is authorized by the harbour manager.

### 23

No person shall interfere with fire-fighting equipment on a wharf or other harbour property or use such equipment for any purpose except fighting fires.

### 24

No person shall supply to, receive into or discharge from a vessel in a harbour or vehicle on harbour property any gasoline or other fuel or oil except at such location, in such manner and at such time as is authorized by the harbour manager.

### 25

No person shall dispose of garbage, sewage or wastes at a harbour except in a place especially provided therefor or as directed by the harbour manager.

## Berthage, Wharfage and Other Charges

### 26

No berthage is payable in respect of

- (a) any vessel, not engaged in trade, that is owned by Her Majesty in right of Canada or of any province or by the government of any country other than Canada; or

- (b) any commercial fishing vessel of
  - (i) less than 13.5 m in length, at a harbour in the Provinces of Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland and Labrador, or
  - (ii) any length at a harbour in the Provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba, in the Yukon Territory or in the Northwest Territories.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/81-469, s. 1
- SOR/2020-181, s. 6

</details>

### 27

No wharfage is payable in respect of

- (a) any goods loaded on or unloaded from a vessel in respect of which berthage is not payable;

- (b) any motor vehicle embarking on or disembarking from a ferry; or

- (c) any goods carried on a motor vehicle embarking on or disembarking from a ferry.

### 28

(1) The charges for berthage of a Canadian commercial fishing vessel and for wharfage are set out in Schedules II and III respectively.

(2) The charges for storage on harbour property are set out in Schedule IV.

(3) Unused portions of prepaid berthage charges will be refunded after settlement at the daily rates.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/81-469, s. 2; SOR/87-99, s. 2; SOR/2002-381, s. 1

</details>

### 28.1

Sections 26 to 28 do not apply with respect to any harbour or portion thereof that, pursuant to section 8 of the Act, is the subject of a lease to any person or an agreement with the government of any province or any agency thereof for the occupancy and use of that harbour or portion thereof where the person, the government or the agency is designated as a harbour authority in the lease or the agreement.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/87-673, s. 1

</details>

### 29

No person who is the owner or operator of a vessel shall permit the vessel to leave a harbour until all charges payable in respect of the vessel have been paid.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/81-469, s. 3

</details>

### 30

[Repealed, SOR/81-469, s. 3]

## Ticket Offences

### 31

(1) Each offence described in those sections of the Regulations specified in column I of Schedule V is hereby designated an offence for the purposes of section 25 of the Act.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of the *Criminal Code*, any enforcement officer who believes on reasonable and probable grounds that a person has committed an offence referred to in subsection (1) may lay an information and issue and serve a summons by completing a ticket in the form prescribed by subsection (5), affixing his signature thereto and

- (a) delivering the summons to the person at the time the alleged offence is alleged to have been committed; or

- (b) mailing the summons to the latest known address of the person.

(3) A person on whom a summons has been served as described in subsection (2) may, at any time prior to the expiration of the time specified in the summons, voluntarily enter a plea of guilty by

- (a) completing the “Plea of Guilty” portion of the summons and affixing his signature thereto; and

- (b) delivering or mailing the summons, together with a certified cheque or money order in the amount of the fine specified in the summons, to the court indicated therein.

(4) The fine for an offence described in a section of the Regulations specified in Column I of an item of Schedule V is the amount set out opposite that section in Column II, III or IV, whichever is appropriate.

(5) The forms of tickets set out in Parts I to X of Schedule VI in respect of the provinces specified in those Parts are hereby prescribed as the forms referred to in subsection (2).

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/81-229, s. 1

</details>

> His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Fisheries and the Environment, pursuant to section 9 of the *Fishing and Recreational Harbours Act*, is pleased hereby to make the annexed *Regulations respecting the administration and development of certain fishing and recreational harbours in Canada*.



## SCHEDULE I

(Section 3)

| Item | Name or Location of Harbour |
| --- | --- |
|  | ONTARIO |
| 1 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 2 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 3 and 4 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 5 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 6 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 7 | Arnprior |
| 8 to 10 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 11 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 12 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 13 | Batchawana |
| 14 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 15 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 16 | Bayfield |
| 17 | Bayfield - Commercial Fishing Facility |
| 18 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 19 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 20 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 21 | Beaverton |
| 22 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 23 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 24 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 25 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 26 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 27 | Big Bay (North Keppel) |
| 28 to 30 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 31 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 32 | Blind River |
| 33 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 34 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 35 | Bowmanville |
| 36 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 37 and 38 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 39 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 40 | Brockville |
| 41 | Bronte (Oakville) |
| 42 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 43 to 45 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 46 to 48 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 49 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 50 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 51 | Campbell Bay (Manitoulin Island) |
| 52 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 53 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 54 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 55 | Cedar Beach |
| 56 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 57 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 58 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 59 and 60 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 61 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 62 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 63 and 64 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 65 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 66 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 67 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 68 | Colchester |
| 69 to 73 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 74 | Constance Bay |
| 75 | Cornwall - Marina |
| 76 | Crow Lake |
| 77 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 78 to 80 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 81 | Deep River |
| 82 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 83 and 84 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 85 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 86 and 87 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 88 and 89 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 90 | Dunrobin |
| 91 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 92 | Dyer’s Bay |
| 93 and 94 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 95 to 97 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 98 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 99 | Fitzroy Harbour |
| 100 to 102 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 103 | Fort Frances - Five Mile Wharf |
| 104 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 105 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 106 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 107 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 108 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 109 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 110 to 113 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 114 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 115 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 116 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 117 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 118 | Grand Bend |
| 119 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 120 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 121 to 124 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 125 | Grimsby |
| 126 | Gros Cap |
| 127 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 128 | Gull Bay |
| 129 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 130 | Haileybury |
| 131 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 132 and 133 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 134 | Harmony Bay - Launching Ramp |
| 135 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 136 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 137 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 138 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 139 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 140 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 141 and 142 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 143 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 144 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 145 | Howdenvale |
| 146 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 147 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 148 | Hurkett |
| 149 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 150 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 151 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 152 and 153 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 154 | Jordan Harbour |
| 155 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 156 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 157 to 161 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 162 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 163 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 164 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 165 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 166 | Kenora - Marina |
| 167 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 168 | Kensington Point |
| 169 | Keswick (Jersey River) |
| 170 and 171 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 172 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 173 | Kingston - Portsmouth Harbour |
| 174 | Kingston (Treasure Island) |
| 175 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 176 | L’Orignal |
| 177 | La Passe |
| 178 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 179 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 180 | Lake Despair |
| 181 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 182 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 183 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 184 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 185 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 186 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 187 to 189 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 190 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 191 | Leamington - Marina |
| 192 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 193 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 194 | Lion’s Head |
| 195 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 196 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 197 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 198 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 199 | Longspur Lake (Lang Lake) |
| 200 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 201 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 202 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 203 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 204 | Mamainse Harbour |
| 205 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 206 and 207 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 208 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 209 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 210 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 211 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 212 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 213 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 214 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 215 | Meaford |
| 216 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 217 | Michipicoten River |
| 218 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 219 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 220 to 222 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 223 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 224 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 225 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 226 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 227 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 228 | Mississauga (Lakefront Promenade Park) |
| 229 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 230 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 231 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 232 and 233 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 234 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 235 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 236 and 237 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 238 and 239 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 240 | Nepean |
| 241 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 242 and 243 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 244 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 245 and 246 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 247 | North Bay - Marina |
| 248 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 249 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 250 | Oliphant |
| 251 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 252 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 253 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 254 | Ouellette Rapids (French River) |
| 255 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 256 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 257 | Owen Sound - Marina |
| 258 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 259 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 260 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 261 | Parry Sound - Bay St. Wharf |
| 262 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 263 | Pefferlaw River |
| 264 | Pelee Island (Scudder Wharf Recreational Area) |
| 265 | Pembroke |
| 266 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 267 | Penetanguishene (Township of Tiny) |
| 268 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 269 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 270 to 272 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 273 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 274 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 275 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 276 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 277 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 278 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 279 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 280 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 281 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 282 to 284 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 285 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 286 | Port Burwell |
| 287 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 288 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 289 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 290 | Port Dover - Commercial Fishing Facility |
| 291 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 292 | Port Elgin |
| 293 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 294 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 295 | Port Maitland |
| 296 and 297 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 298 and 299 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 300 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 301 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 302 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 303 | Providence Bay |
| 304 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 305 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 306 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 307 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 308 to 310 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 311 and 312 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 313 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 314 and 315 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 316 and 317 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 318 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 319 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 320 | Rondeau (also known as Erieau) |
| 321 and 322 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 323 and 324 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 325 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 326 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 327 | Sand Point |
| 328 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 329 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 330 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 331 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 332 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 333 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 334 | Seeleys Bay |
| 335 and 336 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 337 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 338 | Sharbot Lake |
| 339 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 340 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 341 | Silver Water |
| 342 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 343 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 344 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 345 and 346 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 347 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 348 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 349 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 350 | Southampton (Saugeen River) |
| 351 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 352 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 353 and 354 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 355 | Stokes Bay |
| 356 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 357 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 358 | Sturgeon Creek |
| 359 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 360 and 361 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 362 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 363 and 364 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 365 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 366 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 367 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 368 | Thornbury |
| 369 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 370 | Thunder Bay (Current River) |
| 371 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 372 and 373 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 374 | Tobermory (Little Tub Harbour) |
| 375 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 376 | Toronto (Bluffers Park) |
| 377 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 378 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 379 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 380 | Trenton (Bay Marine) |
| 381 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 382 and 383 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 384 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 385 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 386 and 387 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 388 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 389 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 390 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 391 to 393 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 394 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 395 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 396 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 397 | Wellers Bay |
| 398 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 399 | Wendover |
| 400 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 401 | Westmeath |
| 402 | Westport |
| 403 | Wheatley |
| 404 | Whitby |
| 405 | Whitby (Whitby Yacht Club) |
| 406 | White Cloud Island (North Keppel) |
| 407 | White Lake |
| 408 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 409 and 410 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 411 | Whitney |
| 412 | Wiarton - Marina |
| 413 | Wiarton (Town) |
| 414 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 415 | Wilberforce (Pusey) - Launching Ramp |
| 416 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 417 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 418 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 419 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
|  | QUEBEC |
| 420 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 421 | Aguanish West |
| 422 and 423 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 424 and 425 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 426 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 427 and 428 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 429 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 430 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 431 | Aylmer Sound (Harrington Harbour) |
| 431.1 | Baie-Comeau (Multi-Purpose Harbour) |
| 432 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 433 | Baie de Brador |
| 433.1 | Baie-de-Brador (Udell Island) |
| 434 | Baie des Moutons |
| 435 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 436 | Baie-Trinité |
| 437 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 438 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 439 and 440 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 441 and 442 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 443 and 444 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 445 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 446 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 447 | Blanc Sablon - Haul-out |
| 448 | Blanc Sablon - Fishermen’s Large Wharf |
| 449 | Blanc Sablon - Fishermen’s Small Wharf |
| 450 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 451 | Bonaventure (River) |
| 452 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 453 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 454 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 455 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 456 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 457 | Cap-aux-Meules (All purpose port) |
| 458 | Cap-Chat - New Harbour |
| 459 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 460 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 461 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 462 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 463 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 464 | Carleton - Fishermen’s Section |
| 465 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 466 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 467 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 468 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 469 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 470 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 471 | Chevery (Cross River) - Wharf |
| 472 | Chevery (Cross River) - Launching Ramp |
| 473 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 474 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 475 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 476 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 477 | Cloridorme |
| 478 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 479 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 480 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 481 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 482 and 483 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 484 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 485 | Deschaillons |
| 486 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 487 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 488 to 490 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 491 | Étang-du-Nord (also known as L’Étang-du-Nord) |
| 492 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 493 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 494 | Fatima (de l’Hôpital Cove) |
| 495 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 496 and 497 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 498 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 499 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 500 | Gascons (Chapados Brook) |
| 501 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 502 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 503 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 504 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 505 | Grande Entrée |
| 506 | Grande-Rivière - Harbour |
| 507 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 508 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 509 and 510 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 511 and 512 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 513 | Grosse-Île (Cape du Dauphin) |
| 514 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 515 | Harrington Harbour |
| 516 | Havre-Aubert - Inshore fishing facilities |
| 517 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 518 | Havre-Saint-Pierre |
| 519 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 520 and 521 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 522 | Brion Island (also known as Île Brion) |
| 523 | L’Île-d’Entrée (aussi known as Île d’Entrée) |
| 524 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 525 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 526 | Kegaska - East Haul-out |
| 527 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 528 | Kegaska - Landing Wharf |
| 529 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 530 | L’Anse-à-Beaufils |
| 531 | L’Anse-à-Brillant |
| 532 | L’Anse-à-Valleau |
| 533 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 534 and 535 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 536 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 537 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 538 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 539 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 540 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 541 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 542 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 543 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 544 and 545 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 546 | La Tabatière — Fishermen’s Section |
| 547 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 548 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 549 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 550 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 551 to 553 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 554 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 555 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 556 and 557 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 558 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 559 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 560 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 561 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 562 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 563 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 564 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 565 to 567 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 568 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 569 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 570 | Les Escoumins (Basques) |
| 571 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 572 | Les Méchins — Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 573 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 574 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 575 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 576 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 577 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 578 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 579 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 580 to 582 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 583 and 584 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 585 | Mal-Bay (St. Georges) |
| 586 and 587 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 588 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 589 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 590 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 591 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 592 | Matane (New Harbour) — Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 593 and 594 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 595 | Middle Bay |
| 596 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 597 | Millerand |
| 598 | Mingan |
| 599 and 600 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 601 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 602 | Mont-Louis West |
| 603 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 604 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 605 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 606 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 607 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 608 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 609 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 610 | Newport (Islets) |
| 611 | Newport (Point) |
| 612 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 613 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 614 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 615 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 616 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 617 to 619 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 620 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 621 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 622 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 623 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 624 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 625 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 626 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 627 and 628 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 629 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 630 | Oka |
| 631 | Old Fort Bay — Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 632 | Old-Harry |
| 633 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 634 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 635 and 636 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 637 | Paspébiac — Fishermen’s Wharf and Landing |
| 638 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 639 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 640 and 641 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 642 | Petite-Vallée |
| 643 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 644 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 645 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 646 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 647 | Pointe-aux-Loups |
| 648 | Pointe-Basse |
| 649 | Pointe-Fortune |
| 650 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 651 | Port-Cartier (des Rochers River) |
| 652 | Port-Daniel-Est (à Bona) |
| 653 | Port-Daniel-Ouest (Marcil’s Lane) |
| 654 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 655 to 657 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 658 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 659 and 660 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 661 and 662 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 663 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 664 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 665 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 666 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 667 | River au Tonnerre (River) |
| 668 and 669 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 670 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 671 | Madeleine River (Cape à l’Ours) |
| 672 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 673 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 674 | Rivière-St-Paul (Chevalier Bay) |
| 675 | Rivière-St-Paul (des Esquimaux Island) |
| 676 | Rivière-St-Paul (Village) |
| 677 | Rivière-au-Renard |
| 678 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 679 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 680 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 681 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 682 | Salmon Bay |
| 683 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 684 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 685 to 687 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 688 | Sept-Îles (Bunge Park) |
| 689 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 690 | Sept-Îles — Old Wharf |
| 691 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 692 | Shigawake |
| 693 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 694 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 695 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 696 and 697 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 698 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 699 and 700 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 701 | St-Antoine-de-Tilly (Les Fonds) |
| 702 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 703 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 704 | St-Barthélemy |
| 705 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 706 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 707 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 708 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 709 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 710 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 711 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 712 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 713 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 714 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 715 | St-Godefroi |
| 716 and 717 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 718 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 719 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 720 and 721 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 722 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 723 to 726 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 727 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 728 | St-Paul (Île aux Noix) |
| 729 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 730 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 731 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 732 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 733 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 734 to 736 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 737 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 737.1 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 738 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 739 | Ste-Anne-de-Sorel |
| 740 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 741 | Ste-Anne-des-Monts — Multipurpose Harbour |
| 742 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 743 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 744 | Ste-Félicité (à la Croix Cove) |
| 745 | Ste-Félicité (Village) |
| 746 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 747 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 748 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 749 | Ste-Thérèse-de-Gaspé (Petite Rivière East) |
| 750 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 751 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 752 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 753 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 754 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 754.1 | Tête-à-la-Baleine (Fishermen’s Wharf) |
| 755 | Tourelles (St-Joachim) |
| 756 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 757 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 758 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 759 and 760 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 761 to 763 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 764 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 765 and 766 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 767 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 768 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 769 | Verchères |
| 770 to 773 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 774 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 775 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
|  | NOVA SCOTIA |
| 776 | Abbotts Harbour |
| 777 | Advocate |
| 778 | Alder Point |
| 779 to 781 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 782 | Arisaig |
| 783 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 784 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 785 | Aulds Cove |
| 786 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 787 | Baileys Brook (Lismore) |
| 788 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 789 | Ballantynes Cove (McNair’s Cove) |
| 790 and 791 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 792 | Barrios Beach (Tracadie) |
| 793 | Battery Point (Victoria Beach) |
| 794 | Bay St. Lawrence |
| 795 | Bayfield (Pomquet Point) |
| 796 | Bayport |
| 797 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 798 | Bear Point |
| 799 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 800 | Big Bras D’Or |
| 801 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 802 | Big Tancook Island |
| 803 | Blandford (Shoal Cove) |
| 804 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 805 and 806 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 807 | Broad Cove |
| 808 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 809 | Brooklyn - Fishermen’s Wharf, Skidway |
| 810 | Bush Island |
| 811 | Camp Cove (Lower Argyle) |
| 812 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 813 | Canso |
| 814 | Cape John |
| 815 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 816 | Cape St. Marys |
| 817 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 818 | Caribou Ferry - Fishermen’s Facilities |
| 819 | Carters Point (Murphy Cove) |
| 820 | Central Port Mouton - Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 821 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 822 | Centreville (Trout Cove) |
| 823 and 824 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 825 | Chebogue (Town Point Hill) |
| 826 | Chegoggin (Pembroke Dyke Channel) |
| 827 | Chegoggin Point |
| 828 and 829 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 830 | Chéticamp (La Digue) |
| 831 | Chéticamp - Town Wharf |
| 832 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 833 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 834 | Clark’s Harbour |
| 835 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 836 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 837 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 838 | Coopers Point |
| 839 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 840 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 841 | Cribbons Point |
| 842 | Cripple Creek |
| 843 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 844 and 845 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 846 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 847 | Delaps Cove |
| 848 | Dennis Point (Lower West Pubnico) |
| 849 | Dingwall |
| 850 | Dover (previously known as Little Dover) |
| 851 | Drum Head |
| 852 | Dublin Shore |
| 853 | East Chezzetcook |
| 854 | East Dover |
| 855 | East Ferry |
| 856 to 858 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 859 | East Side Port L’Hebert (East Port L’Hebert) |
| 860 | Eastern Passage |
| 861 to 864 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 865 | Falls Point |
| 866 | Feltzen South |
| 867 | Finlay Point |
| 868 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 869 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 870 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 871 | Forbes Point |
| 872 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 873 | Fox Point |
| 874 | Freeport - Fish Point Wharf |
| 875 | Freeport (Northeast Cove) |
| 876 | Freeport (South Cove) |
| 877 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 878 | Gammons Creek (previously known as John Voglers Shore) |
| 879 | Glace Bay |
| 880 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 881 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 882 | Grand Étang |
| 883 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 884 | Gunning Cove |
| 885 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 886 | Halls Harbour |
| 887 | Hampton |
| 888 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 889 | Havre Boucher |
| 890 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 891 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 892 | Hunts Point |
| 893 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 894 | Indian Point |
| 895 | Ingomar (Black Point) |
| 896 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 897 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 898 | Ingonish Ferry (South Ingonish) |
| 899 | Inverness (McIsaac Pond) |
| 900 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 901 and 902 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 903 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 904 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 905 | Jones Harbour |
| 906 | Judique (Anse Baxters) |
| 907 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 908 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 909 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 910 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 911 | Kraut Point (Riverport) |
| 912 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 913 | Larrys River |
| 914 | Ledge Harbour |
| 915 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 916 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 917 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 918 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 919 | Little Harbour (Cherry Hill) |
| 920 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 921 | Little Harbour (Halifax County) |
| 922 | Little Harbour (L’Ardoise) |
| 923 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 924 | Little Harbour (Shelburne County) |
| 925 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 926 | Little Judique Ponds |
| 927 | Little Liscomb |
| 928 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 929 | Little River (Digby County) |
| 930 | Little River (Victoria County) |
| 931 | Little River Harbour (Yarmouth County) |
| 932 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 933 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 934 | Livingstone Cove |
| 935 | Lockeport |
| 936 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 937 | Long Cove (Medway) |
| 938 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 939 | Louisbourg |
| 940 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 941 | Lower East Pubnico |
| 942 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 943 | Lower Jordan Bay |
| 944 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 945 | Lower Prospect |
| 946 | Lower Sandy Point |
| 947 | Lower Wedgeport - Tuna Wharf |
| 948 | Lower Woods Harbour |
| 949 | Lunenburg - Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 950 | Lunenburg - Railway Wharf |
| 951 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 952 | Mabou Harbour |
| 953 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 954 | Ingonish (MacLeods Point) |
| 955 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 956 | Main-à-Dieu |
| 957 | Malagash |
| 958 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 959 | Margaree Harbour (Belle Côte) |
| 960 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 961 | Marie Joseph |
| 962 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 963 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 964 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 965 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 966 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 967 | Meteghan |
| 968 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 969 | Middle Point Cove |
| 970 | Mill Cove |
| 971 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 972 | Moose Harbour |
| 973 | Morris Island |
| 974 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 975 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 976 | Murphys Pond |
| 977 | Neils Harbour |
| 978 and 979 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 980 | New Harbour (Guysborough County) |
| 981 | New Harbour (Lunenburg County) |
| 982 | New Haven |
| 983 | New Waterford |
| 984 | Newellton |
| 985 | North Sydney - Ballast Grounds |
| 986 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 987 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 988 | Northwest Cove |
| 989 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 990 and 991 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 992 | Owls Head |
| 993 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 994 | Parkers Cove |
| 995 | Peggys Cove |
| 996 | Pereaux (Delhaven) |
| 997 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 998 | Petit-de-Grat |
| 999 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1000 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1001 | Pictou Island |
| 1002 | Pictou Landing |
| 1003 | Pinkneys Point |
| 1004 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1005 | Pleasant Bay |
| 1006 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1007 | Point Aconi (McCreadyville) |
| 1008 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1009 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1010 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1011 | Port Bickerton East |
| 1012 | Port Bickerton West |
| 1013 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1014 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1015 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1016 and 1017 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1018 | Port La Tour |
| 1019 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1020 | Port Maitland |
| 1021 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1022 | Port Medway |
| 1023 | Port Morien |
| 1024 | Port Mouton |
| 1025 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1026 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1027 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1028 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1029 | Pugwash |
| 1030 | Queensport |
| 1031 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1032 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1033 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1034 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1035 | Sambro |
| 1036 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1037 | Sandford |
| 1038 | Sandy Cove East |
| 1039 | Sandy Cove West |
| 1040 | Saulnierville |
| 1041 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1042 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1043 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1044 | Seal Harbour |
| 1045 and 1046 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1047 | Shad Bay |
| 1048 | Shag Harbour |
| 1049 | Shag Harbour (Prospect Point) |
| 1049.1 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1050 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1051 | Skinners Cove |
| 1052 | Sluice Point |
| 1053 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1054 | Smithsville |
| 1055 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1056 | Sonora |
| 1057 | South Bar |
| 1058 | South Side |
| 1059 and 1060 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1061 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1062 and 1063 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1064 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1065 | Stoney Island |
| 1066 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1067 | Surettes Island (The Tittle) |
| 1068 | Swims Point |
| 1069 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1070 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1071 | Terence Bay |
| 1072 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1073 | Three Fathom Harbour |
| 1074 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1075 | Tiverton - Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 1076 | Toney River |
| 1077 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1078 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1079 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1080 | Upper Port La Tour |
| 1081 and 1082 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1083 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1084 | Voglers Cove West |
| 1085 | Wallace |
| 1086 | Wedge Point (Wedgeport) |
| 1087 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1088 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1089 | West Berlin |
| 1090 | West Dover |
| 1091 | West Green Harbour |
| 1092 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1093 | West Head |
| 1094 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1095 and 1096 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1097 | Westport - Ferry Wharf |
| 1098 | Westport (Irishtown) |
| 1099 | Whale Cove |
| 1100 | White Point |
| 1101 | Upper Whitehead |
| 1102 and 1103 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1104 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1105 | Yarmouth Bar |
|  | NEW BRUNSWICK |
| 1106 | Alma |
| 1107 | Anse-Bleue |
| 1108 | Back Bay |
| 1109 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1110 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1111 | Barre-de-Cocagne (also known as Bar-de-Cocagne) (Cormierville) |
| 1112 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1113 | Bas-Caraquet |
| 1114 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1115 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1116 | Bay du Vin |
| 1117 | Beaver Harbour |
| 1118 to 1120 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1121 | Black River |
| 1122 | Blacks Harbour - Old and New Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 1123 | Botsford (Murray Corner) |
| 1124 | Boynes Cove |
| 1125 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1126 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1127 | Burnt Church |
| 1128 and 1129 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1130 and 1131 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1132 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1133 | Cap-Lumière (Richibucto Cape) |
| 1134 | Cap-de-Saint-Louis |
| 1135 | Cap-des-Caissie |
| 1136 | Cap-Pelé |
| 1137 | Cape Tormentine - Fishermen’s Facilities |
| 1138 | Caraquet |
| 1139 | Chance Harbour |
| 1140 | Chockpish (Côte-Sainte-Anne) |
| 1141 | Chocolate Cove |
| 1142 and 1143 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1144 | Curry Cove |
| 1145 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1146 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1147 | Dipper Harbour |
| 1148 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1149 | Escuminac |
| 1150 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1151 | Fairhaven |
| 1152 | Five Fathom Hole |
| 1153 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1154 and 1155 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1156 | Grande-Anse |
| 1157 | Gull Cove (Whitehead Island) |
| 1158 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1159 | Hardwicke (French River) |
| 1160 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1161 | Head Harbour |
| 1162 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1163 | Ingalls Head |
| 1164 | Jacquet River |
| 1165 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1166 | Lamèque |
| 1167 | Le Goulet |
| 1168 | Leonardville |
| 1169 | Lepreau (Belas Basin) |
| 1170 | Les Aboiteaux (Dupuis Corner) |
| 1171 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1172 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1173 | Little Dipper Harbour |
| 1174 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1175 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1176 | Loggiecroft (Kouchibouguac) - Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 1177 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1178 | Lords Cove |
| 1179 | Lorneville |
| 1180 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1181 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1182 | Maces Bay |
| 1183 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1184 | Malloch Beach (North Road) |
| 1185 to 1187 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1188 | McEacherns Point (Wishart Point) |
| 1189 | Miller Brook (Salmon Beach) |
| 1190 | Miscou |
| 1191 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1192 | Neguac |
| 1193 | New Mills |
| 1194 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1195 | North Head - Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 1196 and 1197 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1198 | Petit-Cap |
| 1199 | Petit-Rocher |
| 1200 | Petit Shippagan (also known as Little Shippagan) |
| 1201 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1202 | Pigeon Hill |
| 1203 and 1204 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1205 | Pointe-Sapin |
| 1206 | Pointe-Verte |
| 1207 to 1209 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1210 | Richardson |
| 1211 | Richibucto |
| 1212 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1213 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1214 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1215 | Saint-Édouard-de-Kent |
| 1216 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1217 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1218 | Sainte-Marie-Sur-Mer |
| 1219 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1220 | Savoy Landing |
| 1221 | Seal Cove - Fishermen’s Wharves |
| 1222 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1223 | Seeleys Cove |
| 1224 and 1225 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1226 | Shippagan |
| 1227 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1228 | St. Martins |
| 1229 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1230 | St. Thomas |
| 1231 | Stonehaven |
| 1232 | Stuart Town |
| 1233 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1234 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1235 | The Whistle (Whistle Beach) |
| 1236 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1237 to 1239 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1240 | Val-Comeau |
| 1241 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1242 and 1243 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1244 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1245 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1246 | Whale Cove |
| 1247 | White Head |
| 1248 to 1250 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1251 | Wilsons Beach |
| 1252 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1253 | Woodwards Cove |
| 1254 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1255 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
|  | MANITOBA |
| 1256 | Amaranth |
| 1257 | Arnes |
| 1258 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1259 | Balsam Bay |
| 1260 | Berens River (Sigurdsson Island) |
| 1261 | Berry Bay (Wekusko Lake) |
| 1262 | Big Black River |
| 1263 | Buffalo Point |
| 1264 | Calders Dock |
| 1265 | Catfish Creek |
| 1266 | Cormorant Lake |
| 1267 and 1268 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1269 | Dauphin River |
| 1270 | Denbeigh Point |
| 1271 | Duck Bay |
| 1272 | Easterville |
| 1273 | Emerson |
| 1274 | George Island |
| 1275 | Gimli |
| 1276 | Good Harbour (Pacheta Bay) |
| 1276.1 | Goodman’s Landing |
| 1277 | Grand Rapids Reserve (No 33) |
| 1278 | Gull Harbour |
| 1279 | Hecla |
| 1280 | Herb Lake Post Office (Wekusko Lake) |
| 1281 | Hnausa |
| 1281.1 | Hollow Water |
| 1282 | Killarney |
| 1283 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1284 | Little Grindstone Point |
| 1285 | Matheson Island |
| 1286 | Matheson Island - Landing |
| 1287 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1288 | McBeth Point |
| 1289 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1290 | Moose Lake |
| 1291 | Morris |
| 1292 | Mossey River |
| 1293 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1294 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1295 | Pine Dock (Little Bullhead Post Office) |
| 1296 | Playgreen Point |
| 1296.1 | Poplar River |
| 1297 | Rabbit Point (Princess Harbour Post Office) |
| 1298 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1299 | Riverton |
| 1300 | Rossville |
| 1301 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1302 | St. Jean Baptiste |
| 1302.1 | Stevenson Island |
| 1303 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1304 | The Pas - Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 1305 | Thicket Portage |
| 1306 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1307 | Victoria Beach |
| 1308 | Warren Landing |
| 1309 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1310 | Whiskey Jack Portage (Kiskittogisu Lake) |
| 1311 | Whitefish Point |
| 1312 | Winnipeg Beach |
| 1313 | Winnipegosis |
|  | BRITISH COLUMBIA |
| 1314 | Ahousat |
| 1315 | Albion |
| 1316 | Alert Bay |
| 1317 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1318 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1319 and 1320 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1321 | Bamfield West |
| 1322 to 1324 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1325 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1326 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1327 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1328 | Bella Bella (Martins Cove) |
| 1329 | Bella Coola |
| 1330 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1331 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1332 | Bull Harbour (Hope Island) |
| 1333 | Burgoyne Bay |
| 1334 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1335 | Campbell River |
| 1336 | Campbell River (Discovery Harbour) |
| 1337 and 1338 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1339 | Cape Mudge |
| 1340 to 1342 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1343 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1344 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1345 and 1346 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1347 | Comox |
| 1348 | Cortes Bay |
| 1349 | Courtenay - Slough |
| 1350 | Cowichan Bay |
| 1351 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1352 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1353 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1354 | Crofton |
| 1355 to 1357 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1358 | Deep Bay |
| 1359 | Degnen Bay |
| 1360 | Masset (Delkatla Slough) |
| 1361 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1362 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1363 | Douglas Inlet - Mooring Buoys |
| 1364 and 1365 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1366 | Egmont |
| 1367 | Fanny Bay |
| 1368 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1369 | Ford Cove |
| 1370 and 1371 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1372 and 1373 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1374 | French Creek |
| 1375 | Fulford Harbour |
| 1376 | Ganges (Inner Harbour) |
| 1377 | Ganges (Outer Harbour) |
| 1378 | Gibsons |
| 1379 | Gilford Island |
| 1380 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1381 to 1383 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1384 | Gorge Harbour |
| 1385 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1386 | Hartley Bay |
| 1387 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1388 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1389 | Henslung Cove - Mooring Buoys |
| 1390 | Heriot Bay |
| 1391 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1392 | Horton Bay |
| 1393 | Hospital Bay |
| 1394 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1395 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1396 | Hunts Inlet (Porcher Island) |
| 1397 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1398 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1399 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1400 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1401 | Kanaka (Haney) - Landing |
| 1402 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1403 | Kelsey Bay |
| 1404 and 1405 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1406 | Kitamaat Village |
| 1407 | Kitkatla |
| 1408 to 1411 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1412 | Klemtu |
| 1413 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1413.1 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1414 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1415 | Ladner (Delta) |
| 1416 | Ladysmith |
| 1416.1 | Lax Kw’alaams |
| 1417 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1418 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1419 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1420 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1421 | Lund |
| 1422 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1423 | Madeira Park |
| 1424 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1425 | Mansons Landing |
| 1426 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1427 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1428 | Maaqtusiis (Marktosis) |
| 1429 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1430 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1431 | McIvor’s Landing (Langley) |
| 1432 | McMillan Island |
| 1433 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1434 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1435 | Minstrel Island - Wharf and Floats |
| 1436 | Mission |
| 1437 | Mitchell Bay |
| 1438 and 1439 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1440 | Musgrave |
| 1441 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1442 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1443 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1444 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1445 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1446 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1447 and 1448 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1448.1 | Northwest Bay |
| 1449 | Oak Bay (Turkey Head) - Breakwater |
| 1450 | Ocean Falls |
| 1451 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1452 | Okeover Inlet |
| 1453 | Oona River |
| 1454 | Oona River - Mooring Buoys |
| 1455 | Opisaht |
| 1456 and 1457 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1458 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1459 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1460 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1461 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1462 | Porpoise Bay (Sechelt) |
| 1463 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1464 | Port Alberni - Fishing Harbour |
| 1465 and 1466 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1467 | Port Clements |
| 1468 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1469 | Port Hardy |
| 1470 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1471 | Port McNeill |
| 1472 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1473 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1474 | Powell River South |
| 1475 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1476 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1477 | Prince Rupert (Cow Bay) |
| 1478 | Prince Rupert (Dodge Cove) |
| 1479 | Prince Rupert (Fairview Bay) |
| 1480 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1481 | Port Edward |
| 1482 | Prince Rupert (Rushbrook) |
| 1483 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1484 | Quathiaski Cove |
| 1485 | Queen Charlotte |
| 1486 to 1488 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1489 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1490 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1491 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1492 | Saltery Bay |
| 1493 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1494 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1495 | Schooner Cove - Breakwater |
| 1496 | Sea Otter Cove - Mooring Buoys |
| 1496.1 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1497 | Secret Cove |
| 1498 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1499 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1500 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1501 | Shoal Bay (East Thurlow Island) - Wharf and Floats |
| 1502 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1503 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1504 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1505 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1506 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1507 | Sointula |
| 1508 | Sooke |
| 1509 | Squamish |
| 1510 | Squirrel Cove |
| 1511 | Squitty Bay |
| 1512 | Steveston (Gulf of Georgia) |
| 1513 | Steveston (Paramount) |
| 1514 | Stewart |
| 1515 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1516 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1517 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1518 | Tofino (4th Street) - Floats |
| 1519 | Tofino (Armitage Point) |
| 1520 | Tofino (Wingen Lane) |
| 1521 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1522 | Tsehum Harbour (Shoal Harbour) |
| 1523 | Ucluelet East |
| 1524 | Ucluelet (Otter Street) |
| 1525 | Ucluelet West |
| 1526 | Vancouver (False Creek) |
| 1527 | Vesuvius Bay |
| 1528 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1529 | Whaler Bay |
| 1530 | Whiskey Slough (Pender Harbour) |
| 1531 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1532 | Whonnock |
| 1533 | Wiah Point |
| 1534 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1535 | Winter Harbour - Wharf and Floats |
| 1536 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1537 | Zeballos |
|  | PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND |
| 1538 | Abrams Village |
| 1539 | Alberton (Northport) |
| 1540 | Annandale |
| 1541 and 1542 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1543 | Bay Fortune |
| 1544 | Beach Point |
| 1545 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1546 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1547 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1548 | Borden - Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 1549 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1550 to 1552 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1553 | Clifton |
| 1554 | Covehead |
| 1555 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1556 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1557 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1558 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1559 | Fishing Cove |
| 1560 | French River - North Landing |
| 1561 | French River - South Landing |
| 1562 | Georgetown - Fishermen’s Wharf |
| 1563 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1564 | Graham Pond |
| 1565 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1566 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1567 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1568 | Higgins Shore (Prince County) |
| 1569 | Howards Cove |
| 1570 | Judes Point |
| 1571 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1572 | Launching Pond |
| 1573 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1574 | Lower Montague |
| 1575 | Machons Point |
| 1576 | Malpeque Cove (Malpeque) |
| 1577 | McAuley’s Shore (Pinette River) |
| 1578 | Milligans Shore (Milligans Wharf) |
| 1579 | Miminegash |
| 1580 | Mink River |
| 1581 | Montague |
| 1582 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1583 | Naufrage |
| 1584 | New London |
| 1585 | Nine Mile Creek |
| 1586 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1587 | North Lake |
| 1588 | North Rustico |
| 1589 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1590 | Pinette |
| 1591 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1592 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1593 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1594 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1595 | Red Head |
| 1596 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1597 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1598 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1599 | Savage Harbour |
| 1600 | Seacow Pond |
| 1601 | Skinners Pond |
| 1602 | South River (Murray Harbour) |
| 1603 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1604 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1605 | Stanley Bridge |
| 1606 | Sturgeon |
| 1607 | Sturgeon (Bridge) |
| 1608 | Tignish |
| 1609 | Tracadie |
| 1610 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1611 | Victoria |
| 1612 | West Point |
| 1613 | Wood Islands - Fishermen’s Wharf |
|  | SASKATCHEWAN |
| 1614 | Amisk Lake |
| 1615 | Big River |
| 1616 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1617 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1618 | Buffalo Narrows — Fish Plant |
| 1619 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1619.1 | Deschambault Lake |
| 1620 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1621 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1622 | Doré Lake — Fish Plant |
| 1623 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1624 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1625 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1626 | Kinoosao |
| 1627 | Missinipe |
| 1628 | Pelican Narrows |
| 1629 | Pelican Narrows — Fish Plant |
| 1630 | Pinehouse Lake |
| 1631 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1632 | Wollaston Lake (Hidden Bay) |
| 1632.1 | Wollaston Lake (Welcome Bay) |
|  | ALBERTA |
| 1633 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1634 | Canyon Creek |
| 1635 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1636 | Faust |
| 1637 | Hardisty |
| 1638 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1639 | Joussard |
| 1640 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1641 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1642 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1643 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1644 | Peace River |
| 1645 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1646 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1647 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1648 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1649 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
|  | NEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR |
| 1650 | Abrahams Cove |
| 1651 | Admirals Beach |
| 1652 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1653 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1654 | Anchor Point |
| 1655 | Aquaforte |
| 1656 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1657 | Arnold’s Cove |
| 1658 | Aspen Cove |
| 1659 and 1660 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1661 | Baine Harbour |
| 1662 | Bakers Brook |
| 1663 | Bank Head Cove |
| 1664 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1665 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1666 | Barr’d Harbour |
| 1667 | Barr’d Islands |
| 1668 | Bartletts Harbour |
| 1669 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1670 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1671 | Bauline |
| 1672 | Bauline South |
| 1673 | Bay Bulls |
| 1674 | Bay de Verde |
| 1675 | Bay L’Argent |
| 1676 | Bay Roberts |
| 1677 | Beachside |
| 1678 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1679 | Beaumont |
| 1680 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1681 | Belleoram |
| 1682 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1683 | Big Brook |
| 1684 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1685 | Bird Cove |
| 1686 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1687 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1688 | Black Duck Brook |
| 1689 | Black Duck Cove |
| 1690 | Black Tickle |
| 1691 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1692 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1693 | Blue Beach |
| 1694 | Blue Cove |
| 1695 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1696 | Bonavista |
| 1697 | Boxey |
| 1698 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1699 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1700 | Branch |
| 1701 | Brent’s Cove |
| 1702 | Bridgeport |
| 1703 | Brig Bay |
| 1704 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1705 | Brigus |
| 1706 | Brigus South |
| 1707 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1708 and 1709 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1710 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1711 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1712 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1713 | Burgeo |
| 1714 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1715 | Burin |
| 1716 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1717 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1718 | Burnt Islands |
| 1719 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1720 | Calvert |
| 1721 | Campbells Creek |
| 1722 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1723 | Cannings Cove |
| 1724 | Cape Broyle |
| 1725 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1726 | Cape Freels North |
| 1727 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1728 | Cape St. George |
| 1729 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1730 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1731 | Capstan Island |
| 1732 | Carbonear |
| 1732.1 | Carmanville |
| 1733 | Cartwright |
| 1734 | Castors River North |
| 1735 | Catalina |
| 1736 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1737 | Centreville |
| 1738 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1739 | Champney’s West |
| 1740 | Chance Cove |
| 1741 | Change Islands |
| 1742 | Channel-Port aux Basques |
| 1743 | Charlottetown (Labrador) |
| 1744 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1745 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1746 | Coachman’s Cove |
| 1747 | Codroy |
| 1748 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1749 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1750 | Comfort Cove |
| 1751 | Conception Harbour |
| 1752 | Conche |
| 1753 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1754 | Cook’s Harbour |
| 1755 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1756 | Cottlesville |
| 1757 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1758 | Cow Head |
| 1759 | Cox’s Cove |
| 1760 | Crow Head |
| 1761 | Cupids |
| 1762 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1763 | Daniel’s Harbour |
| 1764 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1765 | Davis Cove |
| 1765.1 | Dawson’s Cove (Hermitage-Sandyville) |
| 1766 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1767 | Deep Bay |
| 1768 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1769 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1770 | Dildo |
| 1771 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1772 | Dover |
| 1773 | Duntara |
| 1774 | Eddies Cove East |
| 1775 | Eddies Cove West |
| 1775.1 | Eel Hole (Highlands) |
| 1776 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1777 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1778 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1779 | Englee |
| 1780 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1780.1 | English Harbour East |
| 1781 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1782 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1783 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1784 | Fair Haven |
| 1785 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1786 | Fermeuse |
| 1787 | Ferryland |
| 1788 | Fischells |
| 1789 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1790 | Flat Islands (Port Elizabeth) |
| 1791 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1792 | Flatrock |
| 1793 | Fleur de Lys |
| 1794 | Flower’s Cove |
| 1795 | Fogo |
| 1796 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1797 | Forresters Point |
| 1798 | Forteau |
| 1799 | Fortune |
| 1800 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1801 | Fox Harbour |
| 1802 | Fox Island River |
| 1803 | Fox Roost |
| 1804 | Foxtrap |
| 1805 | François |
| 1806 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1807 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1808 | Frenchman’s Cove (Bay of Islands) |
| 1809 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1810 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1811 | Garden Cove |
| 1812 | Garnish |
| 1813 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1814 | Gaultois |
| 1815 | Georges Cove |
| 1816 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1817 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1818 | Glovers Harbour |
| 1819 | Glovertown |
| 1820 | Goose Cove |
| 1821 | Gooseberry Cove |
| 1822 | Grand Bank |
| 1823 | Grand Bruit |
| 1824 | Grand Le Pierre |
| 1825 | Grates Cove |
| 1826 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1827 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1828 | Green Island Brook |
| 1829 | Green Island Cove |
| 1830 | Green’s Harbour |
| 1831 | Greenspond |
| 1832 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1833 | Griquet |
| 1834 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1835 | Hant’s Harbour |
| 1836 | Happy Adventure |
| 1837 | Harbour Breton |
| 1838 | Harbour Grace |
| 1839 | Harbour Le Cou |
| 1840 | Harbour Main |
| 1841 | Harbour Mille |
| 1842 | Harbour Round |
| 1843 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1844 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1845 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1846 | Heart’s Content |
| 1847 | Heart’s Delight |
| 1848 | Heart’s Desire |
| 1849 | Heatherton |
| 1850 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1851 | Hermitage |
| 1852 | Herring Neck |
| 1853 | Hibbs Cove |
| 1854 | Hickman’s Harbour |
| 1855 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1856 | Hillgrade |
| 1857 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1858 | Holyrood |
| 1859 | Hopeall |
| 1860 to 1862 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1863 | Isle aux Morts |
| 1864 | Isle Valen |
| 1865 | Islington |
| 1866 | Jackson’s Arm |
| 1867 | Jackson’s Cove |
| 1868 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1869 | Jenkins Cove |
| 1870 | Jerseyside |
| 1871 | Job’s Cove |
| 1872 | Joe Batt’s Arm |
| 1873 | Josephine’s Cove (Barr’d Harbour) |
| 1874 | Keels |
| 1875 | King’s Cove |
| 1876 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1877 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1878 | L’Anse-au-Clair |
| 1879 | L’Anse-au-Loup |
| 1880 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1881 | La Scie |
| 1882 | Ladle Cove |
| 1883 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1884 | Lamaline |
| 1885 | Lark Harbour |
| 1886 | Lawn |
| 1887 | Leading Tickles West |
| 1888 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1889 | Little Bay (La Poile) |
| 1889.1 | Little Bay (Marystown) |
| 1890 | Little Burnt Bay |
| 1891 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1892 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1893 | Little Harbour East |
| 1894 | Little Heart’s Ease |
| 1895 | Little Paradise |
| 1896 | Little Port |
| 1897 | Little St. Lawrence |
| 1898 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1899 and 1900 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1901 | Long Cove |
| 1902 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1903 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1904 | Lord’s Cove |
| 1905 | Lourdes |
| 1906 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1907 | Lower Island Cove |
| 1908 | Lower Lance Cove |
| 1909 | Lumsden |
| 1910 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1911 | Lushes Bight |
| 1912 | Mainland |
| 1913 | Makkovik |
| 1914 | Mall Bay |
| 1915 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1916 | Margaree |
| 1917 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1917.1 | Mary’s Harbour |
| 1918 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1919 | McCallum |
| 1920 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1921 | Merasheen |
| 1921.1 | Miawpukek |
| 1922 | Middle Arm |
| 1923 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1924 | Miles Cove |
| 1925 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1926 | Ming’s Bight |
| 1927 | Monkstown |
| 1928 | Moreton’s Harbour |
| 1929 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1929.1 | Mount Arlington Heights (Long Harbour) |
| 1930 and 1931 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1932 | Musgrave Harbour |
| 1933 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1934 | Nain |
| 1935 | New Bonaventure |
| 1936 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1937 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1938 | New Harbour |
| 1939 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1940 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1941 | Newmans Cove |
| 1942 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1943 | Newtown |
| 1944 | Nippers Harbour |
| 1945 | Norris Point |
| 1946 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1947 | North Harbour (Placentia Bay) |
| 1948 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1949 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1950 | O’Donnells |
| 1951 | Ochre Pit Cove |
| 1952 | Oderin |
| 1953 | Old Bonaventure |
| 1954 | Old House Rock (St. Pauls) |
| 1955 | Old Perlican |
| 1956 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1957 | Open Hall |
| 1958 | Pacquet |
| 1959 | Parkers Cove |
| 1960 | Parson’s Pond |
| 1961 | Peter’s River |
| 1962 | Petite Forte |
| 1963 | Petites |
| 1964 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1965 | Petty Harbour |
| 1966 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1967 | Piccadilly |
| 1967.1 | Pinsent’s Arm |
| 1968 | Pinware |
| 1969 | Placentia |
| 1970 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1971 | Plate Cove West |
| 1972 | Pleasantview (Paradise) |
| 1973 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1974 | Point au Gaul |
| 1975 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1976 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1977 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1978 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1979 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1980 | Pool’s Cove |
| 1981 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1982 | [Repealed, SOR/2011-40, s. 3] |
| 1983 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 1984 | Port au Choix |
| 1985 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 1986 | Port de Grave |
| 1987 | Port Harmon |
| 1988 | Port Kirwan |
| 1989 | Port Saunders |
| 1990 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 1991 | Portland Creek |
| 1992 | Portugal Cove |
| 1993 | Portugal Cove South |
| 1994 | Pouch Cove |
| 1995 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 1996 | Princeton |
| 1997 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 1998 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 1999 | Quidi Vidi |
| 2000 | Quirpon |
| 2001 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2002 | Raleigh |
| 2003 | Ramea |
| 2004 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 2005 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 2006 | Red Cliff |
| 2007 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2008 | Red Harbour |
| 2009 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 2010 | Reef’s Harbour |
| 2011 | Rencontre East |
| 2012 | Renews |
| 2013 | River of Ponds |
| 2014 | Riverhead |
| 2015 | Robert’s Arm |
| 2016 | Rocky Harbour |
| 2017 | Rose Blanche |
| 2018 | Round Harbour |
| 2019 | Rushoon |
| 2020 | Sally’s Cove |
| 2021 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2022 | Salvage |
| 2023 | Sandy Cove (Strait of Belle Isle) |
| 2024 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 2025 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2026 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 2027 | Savage Cove |
| 2028 | Seal Cove (Connaigre Bay) |
| 2029 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2030 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 2031 | Seal Cove (White Bay) |
| 2032 | Seldom Come By |
| 2033 | Sheaves Cove |
| 2034 | Ship Cove (Conception Bay) |
| 2035 | Ship Cove (St. George’s Bay) |
| 2036 | Ship Cove (Cape Onion) |
| 2037 | Ship Harbour |
| 2038 and 2039 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2040 | Shoal Cove West |
| 2041 | Shoe Cove |
| 2042 | Sibleys Cove |
| 2043 | Smith’s Harbour |
| 2044 | Smokey |
| 2045 | Snooks Arm |
| 2046 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2047 | Sop’s Arm |
| 2047.1 | South Dildo |
| 2048 | South East Bight |
| 2049 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 2050 | Southern Harbour |
| 2051 | Southport |
| 2052 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 2053 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 2054 | Spirity Cove |
| 2055 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 2056 | Square Islands |
| 2057 | St. Anthony |
| 2058 | St. Anthony Bight |
| 2059 | St. Bernard’s |
| 2060 | St. Brendan’s |
| 2061 | St. Bride’s |
| 2062 | St. Carols |
| 2063 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 2064 | St. David’s (Crabbe’s River) |
| 2065 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 2066 | St. Jacques |
| 2067 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2068 | St. John’s (Prosser Rock) |
| 2069 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 2070 | St. Joseph’s |
| 2071 | St. Lawrence |
| 2072 | St. Lewis |
| 2073 | St. Lunaire |
| 2074 | St. Mary’s |
| 2075 | St. Philip’s |
| 2076 | St. Shotts |
| 2077 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 2078 | Stag Harbour |
| 2079 | Straitsview (Spillars Cove) |
| 2080 | Summerford |
| 2081 | Summerville |
| 2082 | Sunnyside |
| 2083 | Sweet Bay |
| 2084 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 2085 | Tacks Beach |
| 2085.1 | The Gravels (Port au Port) |
| 2086 | Thornlea |
| 2087 | Three Mile Rock |
| 2088 | Three Rock Cove |
| 2089 | Tickle Cove |
| 2090 | Tilting |
| 2091 | Tizzard’s Harbour |
| 2092 | Torbay |
| 2093 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2094 | Trepassey |
| 2095 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2096 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 2097 | Trinity East |
| 2098 | Triton West |
| 2099 | Trout River |
| 2100 | Trouty |
| 2101 | Twillingate |
| 2102 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2103 | Upper Island Cove |
| 2104 | Valleyfield |
| 2105 | Valley Pond |
| 2106 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 2107 | Wesleyville |
| 2108 | West Bay Centre |
| 2109 | [Repealed, SOR/2026-12, s. 1] |
| 2110 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2111 | Westport |
| 2112 | Whiteway |
| 2113 | [Repealed, SOR/2020-181, s. 1] |
| 2114 | Wild Cove |
| 2115 | [Repealed, SOR/2002-381, s. 2] |
| 2116 and 2117 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 1] |
| 2118 | Winterton |
| 2119 | Witless Bay |
| 2120 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
| 2121 | [Repealed, SOR/2006-118, s. 1] |
| 2122 | Woody Point |
| 2123 | Wreck Cove |
| 2124 | [Repealed, SOR/99-466, s. 1] |
|  | NORTHWEST TERRITORIES |
| 2125 | Hay River (East Channel) |
| 2126 | Moraine Bay |
| 2127 | Simpson Islands |
|  | NUNAVUT |
| 2127.1 | Clyde River |
| 2128 | Pangnirtung |

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/80-29, s. 1; SOR/82-911, s. 1; SOR/85-334, s. 1; SOR/92-254, s. 1; SOR/95-180, s. 1(F), 2(F); SOR/97-87, ss. 1 to 3; SOR/99-466, s. 1; SOR/2002-381, s. 2; SOR/2006-118, ss. 1 to 3; SOR/2011-40, ss. 3, 4
- SOR/2020-181, s. 1
- SOR/2020-181, s. 2
- SOR/2020-181, s. 3(E)
- SOR/2020-181, s. 4
- SOR/2020-181, s. 5
- SOR/2020-181, s. 6
- SOR/2026-12, s. 1
- SOR/2026-12, s. 2
- SOR/2026-12, s. 3
- SOR/2026-12, s. 4

</details>


## SCHEDULE II

(Section 28)

| Item | Description | Charge |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Berthage for a Canadian commercial fishing vessel, per metre of length |  |
| (a)per day or part thereof  ... | $ 0.07 |  |
| [^](b)per month  ... | 1.31 |  |
| [^](c)for periods of not less than 3 and not more than 12 months, per month  ... | 1.10 |  |
| [^](d)for a period of 12 months in Ontario, per year  ... | 3.28 |  |
| 2 to 4 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 4] |  |

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/79-209, s. 1; SOR/79-396, ss. 2, 3, 4; SOR/80-22, s. 1; SOR/81-469, s. 4; SOR/83-598, ss. 5, 6; SOR/83-793, s. 1; SOR/87-99, s. 3; SOR/87-673, s. 2; SOR/97-87, s. 4

</details>


## SCHEDULE III

(Section 28)

| Item | Column I | Column II | Column III |
| Description | Unit Basis | Charge |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | All goods not otherwise specified |  |  |
| (a)with a cubic content of less than 1 m^3^ per tonne | tonne | $1.25 |  |
| (b)with a cubic content equal to or greater than 1 m^3^ per tonne | cubic metre | 1.00 |  |
| 2 | Oil, petroleum products and other liquid commodities | kilolitre | 0.75 |
| 3 | Minimum charge |  | 2.00 |

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/81-469, s. 5; SOR/87-99, s. 3; SOR/95-180, s. 3

</details>


## SCHEDULE IV

(Section 28)

| Item | Description | Charge |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Open storage charges for goods on harbour property, per square metre, per day  ... | $0.12 |
| 2 | Minimum charge for storage, per day  ... | 2.00 |
| 3 | [Repealed, SOR/97-87, s. 5] |  |
| 4 | [Repealed, SOR/95-180, s. 4] |  |

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/81-469, s. 6; SOR/87-99, s. 3; SOR/95-180, s. 4; SOR/97-87, s. 5; SOR/2002-381, s. 3

</details>


## SCHEDULE V

(Section 31)

| Item | Column I | Column II | Column III | Column IV |
| Sections of the Regulations | 1st offence | 2nd offence | 3rd offence |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 11 | $15.00 | $30.00 | $45.00 |
| 2 | 13 | $15.00 | $30.00 | $45.00 |
| 3 | 14 | $15.00 | $30.00 | $45.00 |
| 4 | 17 | $15.00 | $30.00 | $45.00 |
| 5 | 20 | $15.00 | $30.00 | $45.00 |
| 6 | 23 | $15.00 | $30.00 | $45.00 |
| 7 | 24 | $15.00 | $30.00 | $45.00 |
| 8 | 25 | $15.00 | $30.00 | $45.00 |

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/81-229, s. 2

</details>


## SCHEDULE VI

(Section 31)

| --- | --- |
| --- | --- |
| Part I: | Alberta |
| Part II: | British Columbia |
| Part III: | Manitoba |
| Part IV: | New Brunswick |
| Part V: | Newfoundland and Labrador |
| Part VI: | Nova Scotia |
| Part VII: | Ontario |
| Part VIII: | Prince Edward Island |
| Part IX: | Quebec |
| Part X: | Saskatchewan |

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/81-229, s. 2
- SOR/2020-181, s. 6

</details>
