---
long_title: "Phthalates Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2016-188"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Phthalates Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**child care article** means a product that is intended to facilitate the relaxation, sleep, hygiene, feeding, sucking or teething of a child under four years of age. (**article de puériculture**)

**good laboratory practices** means practices that are in accordance with the principles set out in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development document entitled *OECD Principles of Good Laboratory Practice*, Number 1 of the *OECD Series on Principles of Good Laboratory Practice and Compliance Monitoring*, ENV/MC/CHEM(98)17, the English version of which is dated January 21, 1998 and the French version of which is dated March 6, 1998. (**bonnes pratiques de laboratoire**)

**toy** means a product that is intended for use by a child under 14 years of age in learning or play. (**jouet**)

## Requirements

### 2 DEHP, DBP and BBP

The vinyl in a toy or child care article must not contain more than 1 000 mg/kg of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP) or benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP) when tested in accordance with a method that conforms to good laboratory practices.

### 3 DINP, DIDP and DNOP

(1) The vinyl in any part of a toy or child care article that can, in a reasonably foreseeable manner, be placed in the mouth of a child under four years of age must not contain more than 1 000 mg/kg of diisononyl phthalate (DINP), diisodecyl phthalate (DIDP) or di-n-octyl phthalate (DNOP) when tested in accordance with a method that conforms to good laboratory practices.

**Interpretation**

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), a part of a toy or child care article can be placed in the mouth of a child under four years of age if

- (a) it can be brought to the child’s mouth and kept there so that it can be sucked or chewed; and

- (b) one of its dimensions is less than 5 cm.

**Dimensions — deflated state**

(3) For the purpose of paragraph (2)(b), if a part of a toy or child care article is inflatable, its dimensions must be determined in its deflated state.

## Repeal

### 4

[Repeal]

## Coming into Force

### 5 Registration

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the *Canada Consumer Product Safety Act*[^], makes the annexed *Phthalates Regulations*.

