---
long_title: "Fort McKay First Nation Oil Sands Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2007-79"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Fort McKay First Nation Oil Sands Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

(1) The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**federal Minister** means the Minister of Indigenous Services. (**ministre fédéral**)

**First Nation** means the Fort McKay First Nation. (**Première Nation**)

**incorporated laws** means the laws of Alberta specified in Schedule 1, as amended from time to time, with the adaptations specified in Schedule 2. (**texte législatif incorporé**)

**project lands** means the lands in Alberta in Theoretical Township 96, Range 9, West of the 4th Meridian that are part of the Fort McKay Indian Reserve No. 174C and are shown on the Plan Showing Survey of Fort McKay Settlement (Oil Sands Lands) recorded in the Canada Lands Surveys Records under number 90264 and registered at the Land Titles Office in Edmonton under number 052 2726, containing 3381.48 hectares (8355.8 acres) more or less and more particularly described as follows:
  - (a) Lot 1, Block 1 1304.11 ha (3222.5 ac);
  - (b) Lot 1, Block 2 830.57 ha (2052.4 ac);
  - (c) Lot 2, Block 2 1109.11 ha (2740.7 ac); and
  - (d) Lot 3, Block 2 137.69 ha (340.2 ac). (**terres du projet**)

**regulation**, for the purposes of Schedules 1 and 2, has the same meaning as in the Alberta *Regulations Act* (RSA 2000 cR-14), as amended from time to time. (**règlement**)

***Interpretation Act* of Alberta**

(2) The incorporated laws that apply with respect to the project lands under section 3 must be interpreted in accordance with the *Interpretation Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. I-8, as amended from time to time.

**Enactment**

(3) For the purposes of the *Interpretation Act* of Alberta (RSA 2000, c. I-8), a reference to “enactment” in that Act is to be read to include the incorporated laws.

**Provincial offences**

(4) For the purposes of enforcing these Regulations, a reference to “enactment” in provincial offences procedures laws is to be read to include the incorporated laws.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-280, s. 1

</details>

## Purpose

### 2 Purpose

The purpose of these Regulations is to implement with respect to the project lands a legal regime that is harmonized with the legal regime of Alberta that governs oil sands mining and related activities.

## Application

### 3 Incorporation by reference

(1) Subject to subsection (2), the incorporated laws apply with respect to the project lands.

**Restriction — laws in force**

(2) A provision of an incorporated law applies only if it is in force.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-280, s. 2

</details>

### 4 Interpretation

For greater certainty,

- (a) nothing in these Regulations confers any legislative power on any person or body;

- (b) a person or body that has a power, duty or function — other than a legislative power — under the laws of Alberta specified in Schedule 1 has the same power, duty or function under these Regulations, subject to the adaptations specified in Schedule 2;

- (c) a body or fund referred to in these Regulations is the same body or fund constituted under the applicable law of Alberta specified in Schedule 1;

- (d) nothing in these Regulations affects the application or interpretation of agreements between Canada and Alberta regarding cooperative environmental assessments;

- (e) where a law that applies with respect to the project lands under section 3 refers to a law that is adapted by these Regulations, the reference shall be read as a reference to the law as adapted; and

- (f) in Schedule 1, a reference to regulations made under an Act includes all regulations made under that Act after the coming into force of these Regulations, unless excepted in Schedule 1 or 2.

### 5 Council of First Nation

The First Nation shall act through its band council in respect of any power, duty or function of the First Nation under these Regulations.

### 6 Exclusion of *Indian Oil and Gas Act*

The *Indian Oil and Gas Act* does not apply with respect to the project lands.

### 7 Prevalence of these Regulations

These Regulations prevail over all regulations made under the *Indian Act*, to the extent of any conflict or inconsistency between them.

### 8

[Repealed, SOR/2023-280, s. 3]

## Coming into Force

### 9 Registration

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Whereas in accordance with paragraph 5(a) of the *First Nations Commercial and Industrial Development Act*[^] the Minister of Indian and Northern Affairs has received a resolution of the council of the Fort McKay First Nation requesting that the Minister recommend to the Governor in Council the making of the annexed *Fort McKay First Nation Oil Sands Regulations*;



## SCHEDULE 1  Incorporated Laws

(Subsection 1(1) and section 4)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-280, s. 4

</details>


## SCHEDULE 2  Adaptations

(Subsection 1(1) and section 4)

### Adaptations Applicable to Incorporated Laws

### 1 Interpretation in French version

An English term that is printed in a combination of parentheses and quotation marks in a provision of the French version of this Schedule is defined in the law that is adapted by that provision.

### 2 Interpretation of incorporated laws

Incorporated laws are to be read without reference to provisions authorizing any person, provincial official or provincial body to expropriate any interest in lands.

### 3 Fee or charge

Any obligation to pay a fee or charge under any incorporated law does not apply to His Majesty in right of Canada.

### 4 No liability of His Majesty

(1) Any obligation or liability of an owner or a registered owner of land, buildings, structures or fixtures under any incorporated law does not apply to His Majesty in right of Canada.

**Approval of owner**

(2) If a consent, authorization or other approval of an owner or a registered owner of land is required under any incorporated law, it may only be given by the First Nation.

**Notice to federal Minister and First Nation**

(3) If a notice or document is required to be given to an owner or a registered owner of land under any incorporated law, it must be given to both the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### 5 Financial requirements under lease

If the incorporated laws require a cash deposit or other financial security to be given, this requirement applies in addition to any other requirements that may apply to the project lands in relation to cash deposits or other financial security.

### 6 Limitation on searches and inspections

(1) A power to search or make inspections under an incorporated law, including the power to enter a place, does not include a power to enter or search a federal government office, or to inspect anything in that office, without the consent of the person who is or appears to be in charge of that office.

**Limitation on production of documents**

(2) A power to seize, remove or compel the production of documents under an incorporated law does not include a power to seize, remove or compel the production of a document in the possession of the federal government without the consent of the person in possession of the document.

### 7 Person indebted

A reference to “person who is indebted to the Government” or “person who is indebted to the Crown” under any incorporated law is to be read as to include a reference to a person who is indebted to the Government of Alberta, the Crown in right of Alberta, His Majesty in right of Canada or the First Nation.

### 8 Person responsible

A reference to “person responsible” under any incorporated law does not include His Majesty in right of Canada.

### 9 *Surface Rights Act* exclusions

Any provision referring to the *Surface Rights Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. S-24, or to rights under that Act does not apply with respect to the project lands.

### 10 *Public Lands Act* exclusions

Any provision referring to the *Public Lands Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. P-40, or to rights under that Act does not apply with respect to the project lands.

### 11 Emergency response plan

Where an emergency response plan is required to be filed, submitted or otherwise made available to any person or body under any incorporated law, the person having the obligation to do so must, without delay,

- (a) provide confirmation to the federal Minister and the First Nation that the obligation has been met; and

- (b) if requested, provide a copy of the plan to the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### Adaptations to the *Administrative Procedures and Jurisdiction Act* of Alberta

### 12 **Statutory power**

A reference to “statute” in the definition **statutory power** in clause 1(c) of the *Administrative Procedures and Jurisdiction Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. A-3, is to be read as including a reference to any statute of Alberta that applies with respect to the project lands by virtue of these Regulations.

### Adaptations to the *Alberta Utilities Commission Act*

### 13 Definition of **Act**

In this Part, **Act** means the *Alberta Utilities Commission Act*, SA 2007, c. A-37.2.

### 14 Affecting rights

A Commission decision or order specific to the project lands referred to in section 9 of the Act is deemed to directly and adversely affect the rights of the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### 15 Person

A reference to “person” in sections 9 and 10 and in subsection 24(2) of the Act includes the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### 16 Entitled to file

The federal Minister and the First Nation are deemed to be persons entitled to file applications for the purposes of section 10 and subsection 24(2) of the Act.

### 17 Costs — His Majesty

The Commission cannot direct that His Majesty in right of Canada pay any costs, money, expenses or penalties under sections 21 and 25 of the Act.

### 18 Registered order — lien

In subsection 26(2) of the Act, the reference to “interest in land” is to be read as a reference to “leasehold interest in land”.

### Adaptations to the *Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act* of Alberta and to the Regulations Made Under It

### 19 Definitions

The following definitions apply in this Part:

**Act** means the *Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. E-12.  (**Loi**)

**Regulation** means the *Conservation and Reclamation Regulation* of Alberta, AR 115/1993. (**Règlement**)

### Adaptations to the *Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act* of Alberta

### 20 Person directly affected

A reference to “any person who is directly affected” in the Act is to be read as including the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### 21 Person responsible

A reference to “person responsible” or “person responsible for the contaminated site” in the Act is to be read as excluding the First Nation.

### 22 Programs for use of economic instruments

No programs or other measures established under section 13 of the Act apply with respect to the project lands without the agreement of the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### 23 Local authority

(1) A reference to “local authority” in sections 27 and 28, subsections 110(3) and 115(3), sections 126, 130 and 220, subsection 233(1) and section 249 of the Act is to be read as including the First Nation and the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo.

**Band council**

(2) A reference to “council” in subsection 233(1) of the Act is to be read as including the band council of the First Nation.

### 24 Reference to Minister

The reference to “Minister” in subsection 99(1) of the Act is to read as including a reference to the federal Minister.

### 25 Effective on agreement

For the purposes of subsection 100(1) of the Act, an order of the Minister is effective on the agreement in writing of the federal Minister.

### 26 Reports and notices

A report or notice required under subsection 110(1), 110(3) or 115(3) or section 130 of the Act is to also be given without delay to the federal Minister and to the First Nation.

### 27 Enforceablility of charge

The reference to “mortgage or other security on land” in section 216 of the Act, is to be read as a reference to “mortgage or other security on a leasehold interest in land”.

### Adaptations to the *Conservation and Reclamation Regulation* of Alberta

### 28 Inspectors

Any designation of a member of the band council of the First Nation or the council of the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo as an inspector under the Regulation has no effect with respect to the project lands.

### 29 Local authority

A reference to “local authority” in subsection 4(2) and in section 17.1 of the Regulation is to be read as including the First Nation and the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo.

### 30 Exclusion

(1) Section 24 of the Regulation is to be read without clause (2)(b) or subsection (4) or (7).

**Replacement of reference**

(2) A reference to subsection 24(4) of the Regulation is to be read as a reference to subsection 24(3).

**Adaptation to subsection 24(3)**

(3) Subsection 24(3) of the Regulation is to be read as follows:

**Adaptation to subsection 24(5)**

(4) The reference to “Minister” in subsection 24(5) of the Regulation is to be read as a reference to “Alberta Energy Regulator”.

### Adaptations to the *Geothermal Resource Development Act* of Alberta

### 31 Definition of **Act**

In this Part, **Act** means the *Geothermal Resource Development Act* of Alberta, SA 2020, c. G-5.5.

### 32 Approval

An order or direction of the Regulator made under section 5 of the Act must also be approved by the federal Minister.

### 33 Inquiry, examination or investigation

For the purposes of section 11 of the Act,

- (a) the federal Minister or the First Nation may also require the Regulator to inquire into, examine or investigate any matter related to the purpose of the Act referred to in section 3 of the Act; and

- (b) if an inquiry, examination or investigation is required by the Lieutenant Governor in Council of Alberta, the federal Minister or the First Nation, the Regulator must report its findings to both the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### 34 Costs — His Majesty

The Regulator cannot direct that His Majesty in right of Canada pay costs or expenses under section 17 or subsection 21(3) or 24(4) of the Act.

### 35 Enforcement of lien

The reference to “interests in land” in subsection 23(2) of the Act is to be read as a reference to “leasehold interests in land”.

### 36 Entry on land

Any regulation made under the Act with respect to entry on a person’s land without the person’s agreement does not apply with respect to the project lands.

### Adaptations to the *Historical Resources Act* of Alberta

### 37 Definition of **Act**

In this Part, **Act** means the *Historical Resources Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. H-9.

### 38 Agreement of federal Minister

Before exercising, or giving notice of an intention to exercise, any power with respect to historic resources, archaeological resources or palaeontological resources under sections 16, 20, 30, 33, 34 and 37 of the Act within the project lands, the Minister must obtain the agreement of the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### 39 Existing rights

The Act does not apply to affect the property in any archaeological resource or palaeontological resource within the project lands.

### 40 Property in records

For greater certainty, the property in any record relating to historic resources prepared by the Crown in right of Alberta is vested in the Crown in right of Alberta.

### 41 Disposition of resources

Any regulation made under the Act respecting the sale, lease, exchange or disposition of archaeological resources or palaeontological resources does not apply with respect to the project lands.

### Adaptations to the *Hydro and Electric Energy Act* of Alberta

### 42 Definition of **Act**

In this Part, **Act** means the *Hydro and Electric Energy Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. H-16.

### 43 Application

The Act applies to

- (a) transmission lines that are used for oil sands mining activities on the project lands; and

- (b) power plants on the project lands.

### 44 Public highway

The definition **public highway** in clause 1(1)(l) of the Act is to be read without reference to the words “owned by the Crown or a local authority”.

### 45 Approval of federal Minister

Only the federal Minister or the First Nation may give an approval under subsection 34(2) of the Act.

### 46 Entry on land

Any regulation made under the Act with respect to entry on a person’s land without that person’s agreement does not apply with respect to the project lands.

### Adaptations to the *Oil and Gas Conservation Act* of Alberta and to the Regulations Made Under It

### 47 Definition of **Act**

In this Part, **Act** means the *Oil and Gas Conservation Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. O-6.

### Adaptations to the *Oil and Gas Conservation Act* of Alberta

### 48 Effective on agreement

For the purposes of subsection 18(2) of the Act, a direction of the Lieutenant Governor in Council of Alberta is effective on the agreement in writing of both the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### 49 Enforcement of lien

A reference to a “debtor” in section 103 of the Act does not include His Majesty in right of Canada or the First Nation.

### 50 Costs — His Majesty

The Regulator cannot direct that His Majesty in right of Canada pay costs or expenses under subsection 104(3) or 105(4) of the Act.

### 51 Enforcement of orders

An enforcement action under section 105 of the Act with respect to land can only be taken with respect to the leasehold interest in the project lands.

### Adaptations to the *Oil and Gas Conservation Rules* of Alberta

### 52 Alberta Land Surveyor

A reference to “Alberta Land Surveyor” in clause 2.020(3.1)(c) of the of Alberta, AR 151/1971, is to be read as a reference to a **Canada Lands Surveyor** as defined in section 2 of the *Canada Lands Surveyors Act*.

### Adaptations to the *Oil Sands Conservation Act* of Alberta

### 53 Definition of **Act**

In this Part, **Act** means the *Oil Sands Conservation Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. O-7.

### 54 Lieutenant Governor in Council

A reference to “the Lieutenant Governor in Council” in subsection 9(1) and in sub-clause 17(a)(ii) of the Act is to be read as a reference to the Lieutenant Governor in Council of Alberta, the federal Minister or the First Nation.

### 55 Failure to comply with orders

For the purposes of section 14 of the Act,

- (a) the federal Minister may direct that the Regulator conduct an inquiry relating to the compliance with a term or condition of an authorization of the Lieutenant Governor in Council of Alberta, and the Regulator must then comply with the procedure set out in subsection 14(2) of the Act;

- (b) if an inquiry is directed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council of Alberta or the federal Minister, the Regulator must report its findings to both of them; and

- (c) a direction or other order made by the Lieutenant Governor in Council of Alberta under subsection 14(4) of the Act is effective on the agreement in writing of the federal Minister.

### 56 Notice

(1) The notice under clause 15(3)(a) of the Act to rectify a default must also be given to the First Nation.

**Notice and opportunity to be heard**

(2) The notice and the opportunity to be heard under clause 15(3)(b) of the Act must also be given to the First Nation.

### 57 Scheme — project lands

(1) A scheme referred to in section 18 of the Act cannot include lands that are not entirely within the project lands.

**Effective on agreement**

(2) For the purposes of section 18 of the Act, a scheme is effective on the agreement in writing of both the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### Adaptations to the *Pipeline Act* of Alberta and to the Regulations Made Under It

### 58 Definition of **Act**

In this Part, **Act** means the *Pipeline Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. P-15.

### Adaptations to the *Pipeline Act*

### 59 Application

The Act applies to pipelines that are used for, or in connection with, oil sands mining activities on the project lands.

### 60 **Road**

The definition **road** in clause 1(1)(y) of the Act is to be read as meaning land that is used or surveyed for use as a public road, street, lane or other public way, but does not include a highway.

### 61 Costs — His Majesty

The Regulator cannot order that His Majesty in right of Canada pay any costs under subsection 33(2) of the Act.

### 62 Report

A report under subsection 35(5) of the Act must also immediately be given to the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### 63 Effective on agreement

For the purposes of section 38 of the Act, an approval of the Minister set out in the section is effective on the agreement in writing of the First Nation.

### 64 Local authority

A reference to “the local authority concerned” in section 39 of the Act is to be read as a reference to the First Nation.

### 65 Entry on land

Any regulation made under the Act with respect to entry on a person’s land without that person’s agreement does not apply with respect to the project lands.

### Adaptations to the *Pipeline Rules* of Alberta

### 66 *Surveys Act*

The reference to “*Surveys Act*” in subsection 4(1) of the *Pipeline Rules* of Alberta, AR 91/2005 is to be read as a reference to the *Canada Lands Surveys Act*.

### Adaptations to the *Responsible Energy Development Act* of Alberta and to the Regulations Made Under It

### 67 Definition of **Act**

In this Part, **Act** means the *Responsible Energy Development Act* of Alberta, SA 2012, c. R-17.3.

### 68 Limited incorporation

With respect to the acts and regulations listed in the definitions **energy resource enactment** and **specified enactment** in subsection 1(1) of the Act, only those that are expressly set out in Schedule 1 of these Regulations are incorporated under these Regulations.

### 69 Landowners

The reference to “landowners” in section 15 of the Act is to be read to include the First Nation.

### 70 Crown

A reference to “Crown” in subsection 50(3) of the Act is to be read as including a reference to “Crown in right of Canada”.

### 71 Person affected

Any reference to “person who may be directly and adversely affected” or “person who is directly and adversely affected” or “person who believes that the person may be directly and adversely affected” in the Act or in the regulations made under it is to be read as including the federal Minister and the First Nation.

### Adaptations to the *Safety Codes Act* of Alberta

### 72 Notice

A written notice under clauses 55(1)(b) and 56(1)(b) of the *Safety Codes Act* of Alberta, RSA 2000, c. S-1, must be given to the First Nation.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-280, s. 4

</details>
