---
long_title: "Long-Range Identification and Tracking of Vessels Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2010-227"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Long-Range Identification and Tracking of Vessels Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

(1) The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**cargo vessel** means a vessel that is not a passenger vessel and is of 300 gross tonnage or more. (**bâtiment de charge**)

**international voyage** means a voyage between a port in one country and a port in another country, but does not include a voyage solely on the Great Lakes, the St. Lawrence River and their connecting and tributary waters as far east as the lower exit of the St. Lambert Lock at Montréal. (**voyage international**)

**LRIT equipment** means information-transmitting equipment for the long-range identification and tracking of a vessel. (**équipement LRIT**)

**LRIT information** means the information referred to in section 5. (**renseignements LRIT**)

**Minister** means the Minister of Transport. (**ministre**)

**passenger vessel** means a vessel that carries more than 12 passengers. (**bâtiment à passagers**)

**sea area A1**, **sea area A2**, **sea area A3** and **sea area A4** have the meanings assigned by regulation 2.1 of Chapter IV of SOLAS. (**zone océanique A1**, **zone océanique A2**, **zone océanique A3** et **zone océanique A4**)

**SOLAS** means the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, and the Protocol of 1988 relating to the Convention, as amended from time to time. (**SOLAS**)

**When vessel is constructed**

(2) For the purpose of these Regulations, a vessel is constructed on the earliest of

- (a) the day on which its keel is laid,

- (b) the day on which construction identifiable with a specific vessel begins, and

- (c) the day on which assembly of the vessel reaches the lesser of 50 tonnes and 1% of the estimated mass of all structural material.

## Application

### 2 Cargo vessels and passenger vessels

(1) These Regulations apply in respect of Canadian vessels everywhere if they

- (a) are engaged on international voyages; and

- (b) are cargo vessels or passenger vessels.

**Exceptions**

(2) These Regulations do not apply in respect of

- (a) pleasure craft; or

- (b) government vessels.

## Compliance

### 3 Authorized representative

The authorized representative of a vessel shall ensure that the requirements of sections 4 to 10 are met.

## LRIT Equipment

### 4 Vessels to be fitted

(1) Every vessel shall be fitted with LRIT equipment.

**Exception — sea area A1**

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of a vessel that operates exclusively in sea area A1 if it is fitted with an automatic identification system that meets the requirements of section 118 of the *Navigation Safety Regulations, 2020* and is operated in accordance with that section.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2020-216, s. 421

</details>

### 5 Automatic transmission

The LRIT equipment fitted on a vessel to meet the requirements of section 4 shall automatically transmit the following information:

- (a) the vessel’s identity;

- (b) the vessel’s position, particularly its latitude and longitude; and

- (c) the date and time of the transmission.

### 6 Type approval or certification

(1) The LRIT equipment fitted on a vessel to meet the requirements of section 4 shall be type-approved or certified by the Minister as meeting the performance standards and functional requirements set out in section 4 of the *Revised performance standards and functional requirements for the long-range identification and tracking of ships*, the annex to International Maritime Organization Resolution MSC.263(84), as amended from time to time.

**Interpretation**

(2) For the purpose of interpreting section 4 of the annex referred to in subsection (1),

- (a) “should” shall be read to mean “shall”; and

- (b) “Administration” shall be read to mean “Minister”.

### 7 Switching off equipment

(1) The LRIT equipment fitted on a vessel to meet the requirements of section 4 shall be capable of being switched off on board.

**Master**

(2) The vessel’s master may switch off the LRIT equipment

- (a) when international agreements, rules or standards provide for the protection of navigational information; and

- (b) in exceptional circumstances and for the shortest duration possible when the equipment’s operation is considered by the vessel’s master to compromise the safety or security of the vessel.

**Informing authorities**

(3) If the master switches off the LRIT equipment in the case provided for by paragraph (2)(b), the master shall

- (a) without delay inform a Marine Communications and Traffic Services Centre of the Canadian Coast Guard and, if the vessel is in the waters of a contracting government, the relevant maritime authority of that government; and

- (b) make an entry, in the record of navigational activities and events maintained under section 138 of the *Navigation Safety Regulations, 2020*, setting out the reasons for the decision and indicating the period during which the equipment was switched off.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2013-235, s. 35(E)
- SOR/2020-216, s. 422

</details>

### 8 Reducing frequency of or temporarily stopping transmission

(1) The LRIT equipment fitted on a vessel to meet the requirements of section 4 shall be capable of

- (a) being configured to transmit the LRIT information at a reduced frequency of once every 24 hours; and

- (b) temporarily stopping the transmission of LRIT information.

**Master**

(2) While a vessel is undergoing repairs, modifications or conversions in dry dock or in port or is laid up, the vessel’s master may, on his or her own initiative, and shall, if directed to do so by the Minister,

- (a) reduce the frequency of the transmission of LRIT information to once every 24 hours; or

- (b) temporarily stop the transmission of LRIT information.

**Informing authorities**

(3) If the master reduces the frequency of or temporarily stops the transmission of LRIT information under subsection (2), the master shall

- (a) without delay inform a Marine Communications and Traffic Services Centre of the Canadian Coast Guard and, if the vessel is in the waters of a contracting government, the relevant maritime authority of that government; and

- (b) make an entry, in the record of navigational activities and events maintained under section 138 of the *Navigation Safety Regulations, 2020*, indicating the period during which the transmission of LRIT information was reduced in frequency or temporarily stopped and whether or not the Minister directed the action.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2013-235, s. 36(E)
- SOR/2020-216, s. 423

</details>

### 9 Failure of system

If the Minister or the Canadian Coast Guard informs the master of a vessel that any part of the system used to receive LRIT information from the vessel or to disseminate the information has failed, the master shall make an entry in the record of navigational activities and events maintained under section 138 of the *Navigation Safety Regulations, 2020* setting out the date and time the master was informed.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2020-216, s. 424

</details>

### 10 Electromagnetic interference

LRIT equipment shall be installed so that electromagnetic interference does not affect the proper functioning of navigational equipment.

### 11 Issuance of proof of type approval or of certificate

(1) On application, the Minister shall issue a proof of type approval or a certificate for LRIT equipment if the Minister determines that the equipment meets the performance standards and functional requirements referred to in subsection 6(1).

**Carry proof or certificate on board**

(2) A vessel’s master shall ensure that a proof of type approval or a certificate issued under subsection (1) for the LRIT equipment fitted on the vessel to meet the requirements of section 4 is

- (a) in the case of a proof of type-approval, carried on board in the form of
  - (i) a label that is securely affixed to the equipment in a readily visible location, or
  - (ii) a document that is kept in a readily accessible location; and

- (b) in the case of a certificate, carried on board in a readily accessible location.

## Coming into Force

### 12 Registration date

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to subsection 35(1)[^] of the *Canada Shipping Act, 2001*[^], hereby makes the annexed *Long-Range Identification and Tracking of Vessels Regulations*.

