---
long_title: "Textile Flammability Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2016-194"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Textile Flammability Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**bedding** means bedding that is composed of textile fibres. (**article de literie**)

**textile products** means products that are composed of textile fibres, other than bedding. (**produit textile**)

## General

### 2 Non-application

These Regulations do not apply to the following products:

- (a) children’s sleepwear in sizes up to and including 14X;

- (b) dolls, plush toys, soft toys and toys intended to be entered by a child;

- (c) cribs, cradles and bassinets;

- (d) playpens;

- (e) expansion gates and expandable enclosures for children;

- (f) textile floor coverings;

- (g) tents; and

- (h) mattresses.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2024-217, s. 7

</details>

## Specifications

### 3 Products without raised fibre surface

(1) The flame spread time for textile products without a raised fibre surface must be greater than 3.5 seconds.

**Products with raised fibre surface**

(2) The flame spread time for textile products with a raised fibre surface that exhibits ignition or fusion of its base fibres must be greater than 4 seconds.

### 4 Bedding

The flame spread time for bedding without a raised fibre surface, or bedding with a raised fibre surface that exhibits ignition or fusion of its base fibres, must be greater than 7 seconds.

### 5 Applicable standard

The flame spread time must be determined according to the Canadian General Standards Board standard CAN/CGSB-4.2 No. 27.5, entitled *Textile Test Methods: Flame Resistance — 45° Angle Test — One-Second Flame Impingement*, as amended from time to time.

## Repeal

### 6

[Repeal]

## Coming into Force

### 7 Registration

These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the *Canada Consumer Product Safety Act*[^], makes the annexed *Textile Flammability Regulations*.

