---
long_title: "Saskatchewan Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2004-304"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Saskatchewan Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**Act** means the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*. (**Loi**)

**police service** has the same meaning as in paragraph 2(q) of *The Police Act, 1990*, Statutes of Saskatchewan, 1990-91, c. P-15.01, as amended from time to time. (**service de police**)

**RCMP** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (**GRC**)

## Report and Notification

### 2

(1) A sex offender whose main residence is located in the Province of Saskatchewan may make any report required under paragraph 4.1(1)(a) or (b) or section 4.3 of the Act by telephone.

(2) The sex offender may provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act in person or by telephone.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2015-231, s. 1

</details>

## Persons Authorized to Collect Information

### 3

The following persons are authorized in the Province of Saskatchewan to collect information for the purposes of the Act:

- (a) a member of the RCMP who serves in Saskatchewan or a member of a police service; and

- (b) a person employed by the RCMP, or by a police service, whose duties include the collection of information under the Act.

## Persons Authorized to Register Information

### 4

Any person who is authorized under section 3 to collect information is authorized in the Province of Saskatchewan to register information for the purposes of the Act.

## Registration Centres

### 5

(1) The following places are designated as registration centres in the Province of Saskatchewan:

- (a) the Saskatchewan Sex Offender Central Registration Centre, administered by RCMP “F” Division and located at 6101 Dewdney Avenue, Regina;

- (b) each RCMP detachment;

- (c) the municipal police service office in
  - (i) Estevan,
  - (ii) Moose Jaw,
  - (iii) Prince Albert,
  - (iv) Regina,
  - (v) Saskatoon, and
  - (vi) Weyburn; and

- (d) each office of the File Hills First Nations Police Service.

(2) The designated area of service of each registration centre is the entire Province of Saskatchewan.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2015-231, s. 2

</details>

## Coming into Force

### [^]6

These Regulations come into force on the later of the day on which the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*, chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 2004, comes into force and the day on which these Regulations are registered.

> The Lieutenant Governor in Council of Saskatchewan, on the recommendation of the Saskatchewan Minister of Justice and Attorney General, pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the *Sex Offender Information Registration Act*[^], hereby makes the attached *Saskatchewan Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations*.



## SCHEDULE
