---
long_title: "Nicotine Concentration in Vaping Products Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2021-123"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Nicotine Concentration in Vaping Products Regulations


## Definitions

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**Act** means the *Tobacco and Vaping Products Act*. (**Loi**)

**vaping substance** has the meaning assigned by paragraph (d) of the definition **vaping product** in section 2 of the Act. (**substance de vapotage**)

## Application

### 2 Retail sale — vaping products

(1) These Regulations apply to every vaping product that is intended for retail sale in Canada, as well as to its packaging.

**Vaping products — otherwise furnished**

(2) These Regulations also apply to every vaping product that is intended to be otherwise furnished, in Canada, at a point of sale that is a retail establishment where vaping products are ordinarily sold, as well as to the packaging of such a vaping product.

### 3 Non-application

These Regulations do not apply to a vaping product that is the subject of an authorization, including a licence, issued under the *Food and Drugs Act* authorizing its sale.

## Nicotine Concentration

### 4 Standard — maximum nicotine concentration

(1) For the purposes of section 7.2 of the Act, a vaping product must not contain nicotine in a concentration that exceeds 20 mg/mL when the vaping substance is tested using the International Organization for Standardization standard ISO 20714, entitled *E-liquid — Determination of nicotine, propylene glycol and glycerol in liquids used in electronic nicotine delivery devices — Gas chromatographic method*, as amended from time to time.

**Conversion of units of measure**

(2) The nicotine concentration expressed in mg/mL must be obtained by multiplying the results of the test conducted in accordance with ISO 20714, expressed in mg/g, by the density of the vaping substance, expressed in g/mL.

**Interpretation — vaping substance**

(3) For the purposes of these Regulations, a reference to “e-liquid” in ISO 20714 must be read as a reference to “vaping substance”.

### 5 Prohibitions — packaging and sale

For the purposes of section 30.45 of the Act, a vaping product must not be packaged or sold in a package that displays a nicotine concentration statement, referred to in section 5 of the *Vaping Products Labelling and Packaging Regulations*, that indicates that the nicotine concentration in the vaping substance exceeds 20 mg/mL.

## Transitional Provision, Consequential Amendments and Coming into Force

### Transitional Provision

### 6 Retailers

Despite these Regulations, a retailer may, until the day that is the 15th day after the day on which these Regulations come into force, sell a vaping product that is packaged in a manner that is contrary to section 5.

### Consequential Amendments to the Vaping Products Labelling and Packaging Regulations

### 7

[Amendments]

### 8

[Amendments]

### Coming into Force

### [^]9 15th day after publication

These Regulations come into force on the 15th day after the day on which they are published in the *Canada Gazette*, Part II.

> His Excellency the Administrator of the Government of Canada in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, makes the annexed *Nicotine Concentration in Vaping Products Regulations* pursuant to

