---
long_title: "Manitoba Hog Marketing Administration Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order, 1998"
instrument_number: "SOR/98-461"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Manitoba Hog Marketing Administration Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order, 1998


## Interpretation

### 1

The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

**Act** means *The Natural Products Marketing Act* of Manitoba, C.C.S.M., c. N20. (**Loi**)

**hog** means a member of the species Sus Scrofa L. (domestic pig) of any kind, grade or class. (**porc**)

**producer** means any person engaged in the production of hogs in the Province of Manitoba. (**producteur**)

**Producer Board** means the Manitoba Pork est., continued pursuant to subsection 3(1) of the *Manitoba Hog Producers’ Marketing Plan Regulation* made under the Act. (**organisation de producteurs**)

## Levies

### 2

Every producer shall pay to the Producer Board, in respect of any hogs marketed by the producer in interprovincial or export trade from Manitoba, a levy of

- (a) $0.20 per head for each weanling hog; and

- (b) $0.85 per head for each other hog.

## Payment

### 3

The levies imposed pursuant to section 2 shall be paid by the producer to the Producer Board within seven days after the receipt by the producer of an invoice from the Producer Board.

## Repeal

### 4

*The Manitoba Hog Marketing Administration Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order*[^] is repealed.

## Coming into Force

### 5

This Order comes into force on September 16, 1998.

> The Manitoba Pork est., pursuant to section 4[^] of the *Manitoba Hog Order*[^], makes the annexed *Manitoba Hog Marketing Administration Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order*, 1998.

