---
long_title: "Public Servants Disclosure Protection Tribunal Rules of Procedure"
instrument_number: "SOR/2011-170"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Public Servants Disclosure Protection Tribunal Rules of Procedure


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Rules.

**Act** means the *Public Servants Disclosure Protection Act*. (**Loi**)

**file** means to file with the registrar. (**déposer**)

**interested person** means a person that is added to the proceedings in accordance with these Rules. (**intervenant**)

**registrar** means an employee of the Administrative Tribunals Support Service of Canada who is designated by its Chief Administrator to act as registrar for the Tribunal. (**registraire**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2015-107, s. 1

</details>

## General

### 2 Liberal interpretation

These Rules must be liberally interpreted, with the aim of ensuring that the proceedings are conducted informally and expeditiously and that the rights of the parties set out in subsection 21.6(1) of the Act are respected.

### 3 Dispensing with or varying Rules

The Tribunal may vary a Rule, or dispense with compliance with a Rule, if doing so advances the aims set out in Rule 2.

### 4 Time limits

If a time limit under these Rules or under an order of the Tribunal ends on a Saturday, or a holiday as defined in subsection 35(1) of the *Interpretation Act*, it is extended to end on the next day that is not a Saturday or a holiday.

## Application by the Commissioner

### 5 Content

An application by the Commissioner under subsection 20.4(1) of the Act is made when the application is filed. An application must contain the following information and documents:

- (a) identification of the orders referred to in paragraphs 20.4(1)(a) and (b) of the Act that the Commissioner is seeking in the event that the Tribunal determines that a reprisal was taken against the complainant;

- (b) the basis for the Commissioner’s opinion that an application to the Tribunal in relation to the complaint is warranted;

- (c) a copy of the complaint and a summary of its contents;

- (d) the name, mailing address, telephone number, fax number and email address of each party to the proceedings and of their representative, if any;

- (e) the location at which the Commissioner believes the hearing should be conducted;

- (f) the language in which the Commissioner believes the proceedings should be conducted; and

- (g) identification of any special arrangements, including interpreters and equipment, that the Commissioner believes will be necessary to conduct the proceedings.

### 6 Notice

After the application has been filed by the Commissioner, the registrar must provide each party with notice of the filing.

## Filing and Service

### 7 Service before filing

(1) A document that is required to be filed under these Rules may be filed only if a copy of that document has been served on each party and each interested person.

**Service of application**

(2) For the purpose of subrule (1), an application by the Commissioner under subsection 20.4(1) of the Act must be served on each person and entity that will be a party to the application under subsection 21.4(2) or 21.5(2) of the Act, as the case may be.

**Service on representative**

(3) If a party or interested person is represented, documents must be served on their representative.

**Proof of service**

(4) When a document referred to in subrule (1) is filed, it must be accompanied by proof of service that meets the requirements of Rule 11.

### 8 Language of filed documents

A document written in a language that is neither English nor French may be filed only if it is accompanied by a translation of that document into English or French and an affidavit attesting to the accuracy of the translation.

### 8.1 Original documents

If a document is filed by electronic filing, any electronic version of it is, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, considered to be the original of the document.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2015-107, s. 2

</details>

### 8.2 Electronic version

If the Tribunal creates an electronic version of a document that is filed by hand, fax or by mail, the electronic version is, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, considered to be the original version of the document.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2015-107, s. 2

</details>

### 9 Methods of service

Service of a document is effected by

- (a) delivering a copy of the document by hand to the person or, if the person is a partnership, corporation or unincorporated organization, to a partner, officer or director; or

- (b) sending a copy of the document to the person by email or fax or by mail to the person’s last known address.

### 10 Effective day of service

(1) Service of a document is effective on the day on which it is delivered. However, service of a document by ordinary mail is effective on the day that is 10 days after the day on which it is mailed.

**Service after 17:00 hours**

(2) A document that is served by email or fax after 17:00 hours at the recipient’s local time is deemed to have been delivered on the next day that is not a Saturday or a holiday.

### 11 Proof of service

(1) Service of a document is proved by any of the following:

- (a) a written statement that is signed by the person who effected the service;

- (b) an affidavit of service; or

- (c) the admission of the person served.

**Confirmation**

(2) If service of a document is proved under paragraph (1)(a) or (b), the written statement or affidavit of service must be accompanied by

- (a) in the case where the document is served by email or fax, a receipt that confirms the successful transmission of the document; and

- (b) in the case where the document is served by registered mail or courier, a receipt that identifies the day on which the document was delivered.

## Addition of Interested Persons

### 12 Motion

(1) A person that wishes to be added to the proceedings as an interested person may make a motion for that purpose in accordance with Rules 13 to 18.

**Considerations**

(2) In deciding whether or not to add the person to the proceedings, the Tribunal must consider whether

- (a) they have a substantial interest in the proceedings;

- (b) their position is already represented in the proceedings;

- (c) their intervention would serve the public interest or the interests of justice; and

- (d) their participation would assist the Tribunal in its determination of the issues.

**Directions**

(3) If the Tribunal adds the person to the proceedings, the Tribunal must provide directions to them regarding their role in the proceedings.

## Motions

### General

### 13 Submission of question

(1) A party may, by motion, submit any procedural or evidentiary question to the Tribunal.

**Timeliness**

(2) Except for a motion referred to in subrule 15(1), a party must make a motion as soon as feasible after it determines that there is a need to submit the question to the Tribunal.

**Directions**

(3) The Tribunal may provide directions to the parties regarding the time and manner in which it will hear their arguments and receive their evidence.

### 14 Correction of defects

If the content or service of a document that is filed is defective, the party that filed the document may make a motion to correct the defect.

### 15 Confidentiality order

(1) A party may make a motion for an order that information contained in a filed document, or that the entire document, be kept confidential.

**Motion**

(2) The motion must be made in writing at the time the document is filed.

**Notice of motion**

(3) In the notice of motion, the party must identify the information or document for which the order is requested and the harm that would result from its disclosure.

**Redacted document**

(4) If the Tribunal orders that information contained in a document is to be kept confidential, the party must provide the registrar with a version of the document that is redacted to reflect the terms of the order and that is marked with the word “NON-CONFIDENTIAL” in bold-faced and capitalized letters.

**Marking filed document**

(5) If the Tribunal orders that information contained in a document, or that the entire document, is to be kept confidential, the registrar must mark the filed copy of that document with the word “CONFIDENTIAL” in bold-faced and capitalized letters.

### Oral Motions

### 16 Leave required

(1) Leave of the Tribunal is required before a motion can be made orally.

**Response to oral motion**

(2) The Tribunal must provide each party that wishes to respond to an oral motion with an opportunity to do so.

### Written Motions

### 17 Notice of motion

A written motion is made by filing a notice of motion that

- (a) sets out the relief requested by the party and the grounds for the motion; and

- (b) indicates which other parties, if any, have consented to the relief requested.

### 18 Response

Within 10 days after the day on which they are served with a notice of motion, a party may file a response that sets out their position regarding the relief sought by the moving party.

## Discovery

### Statement of Particulars

#### General

### 19 Statement for each application

A party must file a statement of particulars for each of the following applications made by the Commissioner:

- (a) an application for a determination of whether or not a reprisal was taken against the complainant and for an order respecting a remedy under paragraph 20.4(1)(a) or (b) of the Act; and

- (b) if the Tribunal has determined that a reprisal was taken against the complainant, an application for an order respecting disciplinary action under paragraph 20.4(1)(b) of the Act.

#### Content

### 20 All parties

(1) A statement of particulars must contain the following information and documents:

- (a) the party’s position regarding the legal issues raised in the application and regarding the remedy or disciplinary action sought, as the case may be;

- (b) the material facts that the party intends to prove in the proceedings;

- (c) regarding documents that are relevant to a matter at issue in the proceedings and that are in the party’s power, possession or control,
  - (i) those documents that the party intends to produce in the proceedings,
  - (ii) a list and description of the documents for which the party claims privilege, and
  - (iii) a list and description of the documents that are not otherwise referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii);

- (d) for each document listed under subparagraph (c)(ii), the grounds for the privilege claimed;

- (e) regarding documents that are relevant to a matter at issue in the proceedings and that are no longer in the party’s power, possession or control,
  - (i) a list and description of the documents, and
  - (ii) for each document listed, a description of how the party lost power, possession or control of it and, to the best of the party’s knowledge, its current location;

- (f) the names of the witnesses, other than expert witnesses, that the party intends to call; and

- (g) if the party intends to call an expert witness, a summary of the issues that will be the subject of the witnesses’ testimony.

**Commissioner**

(2) A statement of particulars filed by the Commissioner must also set out the remedy or disciplinary action requested, as the case may be, and the basis for that request.

**Complainant**

(3) A statement of particulars filed by the complainant in relation to an application for remedy may include a request for a remedy that is different than that requested by the Commissioner, and if so, the statement must also include the basis for that request.

**Employer or former employer**

(4) A statement of particulars filed in relation to an application for remedy by the complainant’s employer or by the person or entity that was the complainant’s employer at the time the alleged reprisal was taken, as the case may be, must — for each material fact raised in the statements of particulars filed by the Commissioner and the complainant — contain a statement indicating whether they admit, deny or have no knowledge of that fact.

#### Time Limits

### 21 Remedy applications

In relation to an application for an order respecting a remedy, a party must file its statement of particulars within the following number of days after the date of the registrar’s notice under Rule 6:

- (a) in the case of the Commissioner, within 20 days after the date of the notice;

- (b) in the case of the complainant, within 35 days after the date of the notice;

- (c) in the case of the complainant’s employer or the person or entity that was the complainant’s employer at the time the alleged reprisal was taken, as the case may be, within 50 days after the date of the notice;

- (d) in the case of the person or persons identified in the application as being the person or persons who may have taken the alleged reprisal, within 50 days after the date of the notice; and

- (e) in the case of a party that is added to the proceedings under subsection 21.4(3) of the Act,
  - (i) if they are added before the date of the notice, within 50 days after the date of the notice, and
  - (ii) if they are added after the date of the notice, within the later of 50 days after the date of the notice and 20 days after the day on which they are added to the proceedings.

### 22 Disciplinary applications — registrar

(1) If the Commissioner makes an application for an order respecting disciplinary action under paragraph 20.4(1)(b) of the Act and the Tribunal determines that a reprisal was taken against the complainant, the registrar must

- (a) serve each party referred to in subsection 21.5(5) of the Act with a copy of the reasons issued by the Tribunal under subsection 21.5(3) of the Act; and

- (b) after that is completed, provide each party with notice that all parties have been served with the reasons.

**Disciplinary applications — time limit**

(2) In relation to an application for an order respecting disciplinary action, a party must file its statement of particulars within the following number of days after the date of the registrar’s notice under paragraph (1)(b):

- (a) in the case of the Commissioner, within 20 days after the date of the notice;

- (b) in the case of a person designated by the Tribunal under subsection 21.5(5) of the Act, within 35 days after the date of the notice; and

- (c) in the case of the person against whom the disciplinary action would be taken, within 50 days after the date of the notice.

### Commissioner’s Reply

### 23 Content and time limits

The Commissioner may file a reply that sets out the arguments that he or she intends to make in rebuttal to facts or issues that were raised in another party’s statement of particulars. The reply must be filed

- (a) in the case of an application for a remedy, within 65 days after the date of the registrar’s notice under Rule 6; and

- (b) in the case of an application for disciplinary action, within 65 days after the date of the registrar’s notice under paragraph 22(1)(b).

### Complainant’s Reply

### 24 Content and time limit

In relation to an application for an order respecting a remedy, the complainant may file a reply that sets out the arguments that he or she intends to make in rebuttal to facts or issues that were raised in another party’s statement of particulars. The reply must be filed within 65 days after the date of the registrar’s notice under Rule 6.

### Supplementary Statement of Particulars

### 25 Content and time limit

Within 20 days after the day on which they are served with a statement of particulars, a party may file a supplementary statement of particulars that sets out any facts or issues that were not raised in their statement of particulars and that are necessary to address those raised in another party’s statement of particulars.

### Expert Reports

### 26 Content

A party that intends to call an expert witness at the hearing must file a report prepared for them by the expert. The report must be signed and dated by the expert and include

- (a) a summary of the expert’s opinion;

- (b) a statement of the expert’s professional qualifications; and

- (c) the expert’s business address.

### 27 Time limits — remedy applications

In relation to an application for an order respecting a remedy, a party must file the expert’s report

- (a) in the case of the Commissioner, at least 60 days before the day on which the hearing begins;

- (b) in the case of the complainant, at least 40 days before the day on which the hearing begins; and

- (c) in the case of any other party, at least 20 days before the day on which the hearing begins.

### 28 Time limits — disciplinary action applications

In relation to an application for an order respecting disciplinary action, a party must file the expert’s report

- (a) in the case of the Commissioner, at least 60 days before the day on which the hearing begins;

- (b) in the case of the person designated by the Tribunal under subsection 21.5(5) of the Act, at least 40 days before the day on which the hearing begins; and

- (c) in the case of the person against whom the disciplinary action would be taken, at least 20 days before the day on which the hearing begins.

### Book of Authorities

### 29 Content

(1) A party or interested person that intends to refer to statutory or regulatory provisions, case law or other authorities in a hearing must reproduce those materials in a book of authorities and highlight the relevant passages.

**Reproduction of federal law**

(2) Federal statutory and regulatory provisions must be reproduced in both official languages.

**Filing**

(3) The book of authorities must be filed at least 15 days before the day on which the hearing begins.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2015-107, s. 4(F)

</details>

## Pre-Hearing Conferences

### 30 Purpose

The Tribunal may schedule a pre-hearing conference to resolve any procedural or evidentiary matters related to the proceedings.

### 31 Modes

The Tribunal may conduct a pre-hearing conference in person, by teleconference, video conference or any other electronic means of communication.

### 32 Notice

If the Tribunal schedules a pre-hearing conference, the registrar must provide each party with notice of

- (a) the mode in which the conference will be conducted;

- (b) the conference’s date, time and place; and

- (c) any motions that the Tribunal intends to hear at the conference.

## Summoning of Witnesses

### 33 Issuance

Following a written request made by a party or an interested person to the registrar, the Tribunal must issue a subpoena for the attendance of a witness or for the production of a document at the hearing.

### 34 Issuance in blank

The Tribunal may issue a subpoena in blank and the party or interested person to whom it is issued must complete it and may include any number of names.

### 35 Attendance

A witness is not required to attend a hearing, or to produce a document at the hearing, under a subpoena that is served on them less than 10 days before the day on which the hearing begins.

## Hearing and Evidence

### Hearing

### 36 Remote hearings

The Tribunal may order that a hearing be conducted in whole or in part by teleconference, video conference or any other electronic means of communication. If so, the Tribunal may provide directions to facilitate the conduct of the hearing using that means of communication.

### 37 Notice of hearing

The registrar must provide each party and interested person with notice of the date, time and place of the hearing at least 65 days before the day on which the hearing begins.

### 38 Special arrangements

A party or interested person that requires an interpreter or any other special arrangements at the hearing must provide the registrar with written notice of those requirements at least 10 days before the day on which the hearing begins.

### 39 Absence of party or interested person

If a party or interested person fails to appear at the hearing, the Tribunal may proceed with the hearing in their absence if it is satisfied that they received notice of the hearing.

### 40 Adjournment of hearing

The Tribunal may adjourn a hearing, and if so, it must provide directions to each party and interested person as to the date, time, place and terms of its continuance.

### Evidence

### 41 Limits

Except with leave of the Tribunal, a party is not permitted to do any of the following at the hearing:

- (a) raise a position, seek to prove a material fact or to introduce a document that was not disclosed, or call a witness — other than an expert witness — who was not named, in its statement of particulars, reply or supplementary statement of particulars;

- (b) introduce an expert report into evidence or call the expert as a witness if the expert report was not provided in accordance with Rules 26 to 28; and

- (c) in the case of the Commissioner or the complainant, request any remedy or disciplinary action, as the case may be, that was not raised in its statement of particulars.

### 42 Examination outside hearing

(1) A party that wishes to examine a person who is unable to attend the hearing may make a motion to the Tribunal for an order to examine that person outside the hearing and to introduce that person’s evidence at the hearing.

**Directions required**

(2) If the Tribunal grants the party’s motion, the Tribunal must provide directions regarding

- (a) the time, place and manner of the examination and cross-examination;

- (b) the notices to be given to the person being examined, the parties and the interested persons;

- (c) the attendance of parties; and

- (d) the production of any documents requested by the examining party.

### 43 Exclusion of witnesses

(1) The Tribunal may order that a witness be excluded from the hearing room until they are called to give evidence.

**Exception**

(2) However, the Tribunal cannot order the exclusion of any witness who is a party or any witness whose presence is essential to instruct the party’s representative, but the Tribunal may require the witness to give evidence before any other witnesses are called to give evidence on behalf of that party.

### 44 Communication with excluded witnesses prohibited

If the Tribunal orders that a witness be excluded from the hearing room, it is prohibited for any person to communicate with the witness regarding the evidence given during their absence from the hearing room until the witness has been called and has finished giving evidence.

## Transitional

### 45 Application

(1) Subject to subrules (2) to (4) and except for Rules 5, 6 and 21, these Rules apply to the proceedings in respect of an application that is made to the Tribunal by the Commissioner under subsection 20.4(1) of the Act before the day on which these Rules come into force.

**Non-application**

(2) The time limits referred to in paragraph 23(a) and Rule 24 do not apply to the proceedings in respect of the application.

**Tribunal directions**

(3) If the Tribunal provides a party or interested person with directions regarding any matter of procedure that is governed by these Rules before the day on which these Rules come into force, they must continue to act in accordance with those directions and the Rules that would otherwise govern the matter do not apply.

**Non-application**

(4) If a Rule contains a time limit that requires the doing of a thing within a prescribed number of days before the day on which the hearing begins, the time limit does not apply if

- (a) before the day on which these Rules come into force, the Tribunal provides the parties with directions regarding the time for the doing of the thing; or

- (b) on the day on which these Rules come into force, there are no more than the prescribed number of days remaining before the day on which the hearing begins.

## Coming into Force

### 46 Registration

These Rules come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Whereas, pursuant to subsection 21(4)[^] of the *Public Servants Disclosure Protection Act*[^], a copy of the proposed *Public Servants Disclosure Protection Tribunal Rules of Procedure*, substantially in the annexed form, was published in the *Canada Gazette*, Part I, on May 21, 2011 and interested persons were given a reasonable opportunity to make representations with respect to the proposed Rules;

