---
long_title: "Qikiqtarjuaq Airport Zoning Regulations"
instrument_number: "SOR/2012-91"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Qikiqtarjuaq Airport Zoning Regulations


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**airport** means the Qikiqtarjuaq Airport, in the vicinity of Qikiqtarjuaq, in Nunavut. (**aéroport**)

**airport reference point** means the point described in Part 1 of the schedule. (**point de référence de l’aéroport**)

**approach surface** means an imaginary inclined surface that extends upward and outward from each end of the strip surface and that is described in Part 2 of the schedule. (**surface d’approche**)

**outer surface** means the imaginary surface that is located above and in the immediate vicinity of the airport and that is described in Part 3 of the schedule. (**surface extérieure**)

**strip surface** means the imaginary surface that is associated with the airport runway and that is described in Part 4 of the schedule. (**surface de bande**)

**transitional surface** means an imaginary inclined surface that extends upward and outward from the lateral limits of the strip surface and its approach surfaces and that is described in Part 5 of the schedule. (**surface de transition**)

**zoning plan** means Plan No. E 3262, prepared by the Department of Public Works and Government Services and dated December 1, 2008. (**plan de zonage**)

## Application

### 2 Lands near airport

These Regulations apply in respect of all lands that are adjacent to or in the vicinity of the airport within the limit described in Part 6 of the schedule. For greater certainty, the lands include lands under water and public road allowances.

## Building Restrictions

### 3 Prohibition — maximum height

A person must not place, erect or construct, or permit another person to place, erect or construct, on any of the lands, a building, structure or object, or an addition to an existing building, structure or object, any part of which would penetrate any of the following surfaces:

- (a) an approach surface;

- (b) the outer surface; or

- (c) a transitional surface.

## Interference with Communication

### 4 Prohibition — interference

A person must not use or develop, or permit another person to use or develop, any of the lands that are under the outer surface in a manner that causes interference with any signal or communication to and from an aircraft or to and from any facility used to provide services relating to aeronautics.

## Natural Growth

### 5 Prohibition — maximum height

A person must not permit any object of natural growth that is on any of the lands to grow in such a manner as to penetrate any of the following surfaces:

- (a) an approach surface;

- (b) the outer surface; or

- (c) a transitional surface.

## Wildlife Hazard

### 6 Prohibition — activities or uses

(1) A person must not use or permit another person to use any of the lands for activities or uses that attract wildlife — particularly birds — that may create a hazard for aviation safety.

**Exception**

(2) Despite subsection (1), a person may use or permit another person to use any of the lands as a site for an open water storage reservoir for a period of 48 hours or less.

## Coming into Force

### [^]7 Requirements — s. 5.6(2) of *Aeronautics Act*

These Regulations come into force on the day on which the requirements prescribed in subsection 5.6(2) of the *Aeronautics Act* are met.

> Whereas, pursuant to subsection 5.5(1)[^] of the *Aeronautics Act*[^], a notice of the proposed *Qikiqtarjuaq Airport Zoning Regulations* was published in two successive issues of the *Nunatsiaq News* on February 10 and February 17, 2012, a copy of the proposed Regulations, substantially in the annexed form, was published in two successive issues of the *Canada Gazette*, Part I, on March 19 and March 26, 2011, and a reasonable opportunity was thereby afforded to interested persons to make representations to the Minister of Transport with respect to the proposed Regulations;



## SCHEDULE

(Sections 1 and 2)

### Airport Reference Point

### Approach Surfaces

### Outer Surface

### Strip Surface

| Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 | Column 6 | Column 7 |
| Segment | Starting point of segment | Assigned elevation of starting point (m) | End point of segment | Distance between starting and end points of segment (m) | Assigned elevation of end point (m) | Constant ratio for calculating elevation of any point along segment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Threshold 03 | 3.98 | Intermediate point A | 580.425 | 4.48 | +1 : 1160.850 |
| 2 | Intermediate point A | 4.48 | Threshold 21 | 580.425 | 4.11 | -1 : 1568.7162 |

### Transitional Surfaces

### Limit of Area Containing Lands to Which These Regulations Apply
