---
long_title: "Migratory Birds Regulations, 2022"
instrument_number: "SOR/2022-105"
language: "en"
type: "regulation"
---

> Migratory Birds Regulations, 2022


## Interpretation

### 1 Definitions

(1) The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

**Act** means the *Migratory Birds Convention Act, 1994*. (**Loi**)

**aircraft** includes an air vehicle that does not have a pilot on board. (**aéronef**)

**bait** means any feed, or imitation feed, that may attract migratory birds. (**appât**)

**chief provincial wildlife officer** means a person appointed as chief or director of a provincial authority responsible for the administration of a provincial wildlife act. (**agent provincial en chef de la faune**)

**contact information** means postal address, email address, if any, and telephone number. (**coordonnées**)

**daily bag limit** means, in respect of a species, or group of species, of migratory game birds or murres, the maximum number of birds that a person may kill or take in a day in a given area as set out in column 5 of Table 1 or, if applicable, of Table 2 of the relevant Part of Schedule 3, for that area and that species or, if the Minister has altered the daily bag limit under section 19, the limit established by the Minister. (**maximum de prises par jour**)

**egg** means the egg of a migratory bird and includes parts of the egg. (**oeuf**)

**game officer** means a person who is appointed as a game officer under section 6 of the Act. (**garde-chasse**)

**habitat conservation stamp** means a stamp issued for the following purposes set out in the Certificate of Continuance of Wildlife Habitat Canada dated July 11, 2014, as they relate to migratory birds:
  - (a) to promote the conservation, restoration and enhancement of wildlife habitat in order to retain the diversity, distribution and abundance of wildlife;
  - (b) to provide a funding mechanism for the conservation, restoration and enhancement of wildlife habitat in Canada; and
  - (c) to foster coordination and leadership in the conservation, restoration and enhancement of wildlife in Canada. (**timbre de conservation des habitats**)

**holder** means, with respect to a permit, a person to whom a permit, that remains valid, was issued. (**titulaire**)

**hunt** means chase, pursue, worry, follow after or on the trail of, lie in wait for, or attempt in any manner to capture, kill, take, injure or harass a migratory bird, whether or not it is captured, killed, taken, injured or harassed. (**chasser**)

**lure crop area** means an area of cropland that, under an agreement between the Government of Canada and the government of a province, remains unharvested for the purpose of luring migratory birds away from other unharvested crops nearby and that is designated as such an area by a sign. (**zone de cultures de diversion**)

**lure station area** means an area established under an agreement between the Government of Canada and the government of a province where bait is deposited for the purpose of luring migratory birds away from unharvested crops nearby, and designated as such an area by a sign. (**zone de diversion**)

**minor** means an individual who has not attained the age of 18 years. (**mineur**)

**open season** means, in respect of a species, or group of species, of migratory game birds or murres, any season during which birds of those species may be hunted in an area as set out in column 4 of Table 1 or, if applicable, Table 2, of the relevant Part of Schedule 3 or, if the Minister has altered the open season under section 19, the open season established by the Minister. (**saison de chasse**)

**overabundant species** means a species of migratory game bird that causes damage or is likely to cause damage to agricultural, environmental or other similar interests as a result of the rate of increase of the population of that species or the abundance of that population, and that is is set out in column 2 of Table 2 of any Part of Schedule 3. (**espèce surabondante**)

**permit** means a permit issued under these Regulations. (**permis**)

**possession limit** means, in respect of a species, or group of species, of migratory game birds or murres, the maximum number of birds that a person may have in their possession at any time in an area set out in column 3 of Table 1 or, if applicable, of Table 2 of the relevant Part of Schedule 3 or, if the Minister has altered the possession limit under section 19, the possession limit established by the Minister. (**maximum d’oiseaux à posséder**)

**preserved** means, with respect to a migratory game bird, one that has
  - (a) been eviscerated and plucked in any location and then been frozen, made into sausage, cooked, dried, canned or smoked in a location other than the hunting area;
  - (b) in a location other than the hunting area, had its edible portions removed from its carcass and then been frozen, made into sausage, cooked, dried, canned or smoked; or
  - (c) been mounted for taxidermy. (**préparé**)

**Wildlife Habitat Canada** means the corporation without share capital incorporated under Part II of the *Canada Corporations Act* by letters patent dated February 24, 1984, and continued in accordance with subsection 297(1) of the *Canada Not-for-profit Corporations Act* on July 11, 2014. (**Habitat faunique Canada**)

**Definitions — Act and Regulations**

(2) The following definitions apply in the Act and in these Regulations.

**buy** includes offering to buy. (**acheter**)

**exchange** includes offering to exchange, bartering and offering to barter. (**échanger**)

**sell** includes offering for sale and exposing for sale. (**vendre**)

**Definition of **commercial transaction****

(3) For the purposes of the Act, **commercial transaction** includes renting and offering to rent.

**Benefits**

(4) For the purposes of these Regulations, any gift for which the giver receives any benefit, including a tax benefit, is considered a sale.

**Period**

(5) In these Regulations, unless otherwise specified, where a period of time is set out, the period shall not exceed 12 months from beginning to end.

## Application

### 2 Migratory birds

These Regulations apply in respect of migratory game birds, migratory insectivorous birds and migratory non-game birds referred to in the Convention, but do not apply to any such birds raised in captivity that can readily be distinguished from wild migratory birds by their size, shape or plumage.

### 3 Canadian waters

Any provision of these Regulations that applies to a province, or any part of a province, applies to Canadian waters adjacent to that province or that part of that province.

## General

### Application

### 4 Scope

This Part sets out general rules in respect of migratory birds. These rules also apply, unless otherwise stated, to activities and permits referred to in Parts 2 to 4.

### Prohibitions

### 5 Prohibitions

(1) A person must not engage in any of the following activities unless they have a permit that authorizes them to do so or they are authorized by these Regulations to do so:

- (a) capture, kill, take, injure or harass a migratory bird or attempt to do so;

- (b) destroy, take or disturb an egg; and

- (c) damage, destroy, remove or disturb a nest, nest shelter, eider duck shelter or duck box.

**Exceptions**

(2) However, the following may be damaged, destroyed, removed or disturbed without a permit:

- (a) a nest shelter, eider duck shelter or duck box that does not contain a live bird or a viable egg;

- (b) a nest that was built by a species that is not listed in a Table to Schedule 1 if that nest does not contain a live bird or a viable egg; and

- (c) a nest that was built by a species that is listed in a Table to Schedule 1 if the following conditions are met:
  - (i) the person who damages, destroys, removes or disturbs that nest provided a written notice to the Minister a number of months beforehand that corresponds to the number of months set out in column 3 of the relevant Table to that Schedule for the species, and
  - (ii) the nest has not been used by migratory birds since the notice was received by the Minister.

### 6 Prohibition — baiting

(1) A person must not deposit bait in an area set out in Schedule 3 during the period beginning 14 days before the first day of the first open season after July 1 of a calendar year for the area and ending on the last day of the last open season before July 1 of the following year for that area.

**Exception — authorization**

(2) Despite subsection (1), a person may deposit bait in a place if, at least 30 days prior to depositing the bait, they

- (a) obtain, with respect to a given period, the consent in writing of
  - (i) every landowner, lessee, tenant and occupant whose land is located within 400 m of that place,
  - (ii) the Minister, and
  - (iii) the chief provincial wildlife officer or a provincial game officer who is authorized by that chief provincial wildlife officer to give the consent; and

- (b) post at locations that are 400 m from the place bait is deposited signs whose type and wording comply with the Minister’s instructions.

**Exception — banding**

(3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), a holder of a scientific permit may, at any time and in any place, deposit bait for the purpose of banding birds.

**Exception — other scientific purposes**

(4) Despite subsections (1) and (2), a holder of a scientific permit or their nominee may, at any time, deposit bait within the confined location specified in the permit, for scientific purposes other than banding.

**Sign**

(5) A person who engages in baiting in accordance with subsection (3) or (4) must post a sign at the place where bait is deposited that is of a type and wording specified in the permit and that indicates the number of the scientific permit.

### 7 Lure crop and lure station areas

(1) A person must not enter a lure crop area or a lure station area unless authorized in writing by the chief provincial wildlife officer or the Minister.

**Prohibition on hunting**

(2) A person must not hunt a migratory game bird in a lure crop area or a lure station area unless the area has been declared open for hunting by the chief provincial wildlife officer or the Minister.

### 8 Signs related to prohibited activities

(1) A person must not destroy, damage, alter or remove a sign whose purpose is to prevent an activity referred to in subsection 5(1) and that is lawfully erected by or under the authority of the Minister or a game officer.

**Signs related to bait**

(2) A person must not destroy, damage, alter or remove a sign that has been placed in accordance with paragraph 6(2)(b) or subparagraph 61(2)(d)(i) or 62(2)(d)(i) or that designates a lure crop area or a lure station area.

### 9 Foreign species

A person must not introduce into Canada for the purpose of sport, acclimatization or release from captivity a species of migratory bird that is not indigenous to Canada except with the consent in writing of the Minister.

### 10 Possession of birds and nests

(1) A person may have in their possession, for the purpose of shipping, a migratory bird that was killed, captured or taken in accordance with these Regulations or a nest that was removed in accordance with these Regulations.

**Shipping of birds and nests**

(2) A person who has in their possession a migratory bird or a nest under subsection (1) must ensure that it is packaged and that the exterior of the package is clearly marked with

- (a) the number of any permit under which the bird was killed, captured or taken or the nest was removed;

- (b) the full name and contact information of the permit holder and of the current owner of the bird or nest; and

- (c) an accurate statement of the contents of the package.

### Temporary Possession

### 11 Possession without permit

(1) A person may, without a permit, temporarily have in their possession

- (a) a migratory bird that is found dead, for the purpose of disposing of it according to applicable law, delivering it to a lab for analysis as soon as the circumstances permit or analyzing it in a lab;

- (b) an injured migratory bird, for the purpose of delivering it as soon as the circumstances permit to the holder of a scientific permit referred to in section 75 that was issued for the purpose of rehabilitation; and

- (c) an uninjured migratory bird that faces an immediate threat to its life, for the purpose of temporarily providing assistance to it.

**Non-application to eggs**

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to eggs.

### Permits

### 12 Issuance by Minister

(1) The Minister may issue the following permits:

- (a) a migratory game bird hunting permit referred to in section 30;

- (b) the following damage or danger permits:
  - (i) a scaring or killing permit referred to in section 65,
  - (ii) an egg or nest destruction permit referred to in section 70,
  - (iii) a relocation permit referred to in section 71; and

- (c) an airport permit referred to in section 72;

- (d) a scientific permit referred to in section 75;

- (e) an aviculture permit referred to in section 76;

- (f) a taxidermist permit referred to in section 77;

- (g) an eiderdown commerce permit referred to in section 80; and

- (h) a charity permit referred to in section 82.

**Application for permit**

(2) A person who applies for a permit referred to in subsection (1) must

- (a) subject to subsection 32(1), pay the fee set out in column 2 of Schedule 2 for that permit, if any; and

- (b) provide the Minister with all the information that the Minister may require respecting the purpose for which the permit is to be used.

### 13 Conditions

(1) The Minister may set out in a permit conditions respecting

- (a) the species of migratory birds the permitted activity relates to and the periods of time and the areas in which the permitted activity can take place;

- (b) the care, release, scaring, capture, killing or disposal of migratory birds;

- (c) the taking, relocation, handling and disposal of eggs;

- (d) the removal, relocation, handling and disposal of nests; and

- (e) the maintenance of records and provision of information to the Minister with respect to activities conducted in accordance with the permit.

**Gift of migratory bird**

(2) Every permit is subject to the condition that the holder must not give away a migratory bird that is obtained under the permit and that is of a species listed in Schedule 1 to the *Species at Risk Act* unless the Minister indicates on the permit that such a gift is authorized.

**Use of feathers**

(3) Every permit is subject to the condition that the holder must not do the following with migratory bird feathers obtained under the permit:

- (a) sell or exchange them for ornamental use or hat-making; or

- (b) give them for ornamental use or hat-making unless the recipient of the gift may exercise a right recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the *Constitution Act, 1982* to use the feather in that way.

### 14 Invalidity

No permit is valid

- (a) in the case of permits other than migratory game bird hunting permits, if it is not signed by the individual to whom it is issued or, if it is not issued to an individual, by a representative of the person to whom it is issued;

- (b) after it is cancelled or during the period it is suspended, unless it is reissued in accordance with subsection 15(3); or

- (c) if it expires in accordance with section 16 or 33.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2022-147, s. 1

</details>

### 15 Powers of the Minister — permits

(1) The Minister may

- (a) refuse to issue a permit to any person;

- (b) cancel a permit if the Minister has reasonable cause to believe that the person to whom it was issued has provided false, misleading or incomplete information to the Minister or failed to comply with any condition of the permit; or

- (c) cancel, amend or suspend any permit for the purposes of the conservation or propagation of migratory birds.

**Notice**

(2) A cancellation, amendment or suspension of a permit under paragraph (1)(c) is effected by sending a written notice to the person to whom the permit was issued that includes the reasons for the decision.

**Cancellation, amendment or suspension of permit**

(3) A permit that is cancelled, amended or suspended under paragraph (1)(c) must be reissued

- (a) if the circumstances which led to the cancellation, amendment or suspension are rectified; or

- (b) if the person to whom the permit was issued is not provided with the opportunity to be heard within 30 days after the date of the cancellation, amendment or suspension.

### 16 Expiry

Every permit, other than a migratory game bird hunting permit referred to in section 30, expires on the expiry date set out in the permit or, if a permit does not contain an expiry date, on December 31 of the year in which it was issued.

### 17 Reports

Every person to whom a permit was issued and who is required by these Regulations to submit a report to the Minister must, except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, submit that report within 30 days of the day on which the permit expires.

### 18 Gift of feathers — permit

(1) Subject to paragraph 13(3)(b), a person who has in their possession migratory bird feathers, other than eiderdown, under a permit may give those feathers to another person for educational, social, cultural or spiritual purposes.

**Possession**

(2) A recipient of a gift of feathers that were obtained under subsection (1) has the right to have the feathers in their possession.

### Powers of the Minister to Vary the Application of the Regulations

### 19 Periods or limits

(1) If the Minister considers it necessary for the conservation of migratory game birds or murres, the Minister may take one or more of the following measures to vary the application of these Regulations in an area referred to in Schedule 3:

- (a) alter open seasons, daily bag limits, or possession limits in the area; and

- (b) prohibit hunting of a species of migratory game bird or murre in the area.

**Restriction — varying section 21**

(2) However, the Minister must not use the power referred to in subsection (1) to require that individuals exercising a right referred to in section 21 hunt only during an open season, to impose a daily bag limit or possession limit on those individuals or to prohibit them from hunting a species of migratory game bird or murre unless using the power with respect to the holders of the migratory game bird hunting permits referred to in section 30 is insufficient to achieve the conservation of those migratory game birds or murres.

**Power with respect to section 52**

(3) If the Minister exercises the power referred to in subsection (1) in accordance with subsection (2), the Minister may vary the application of section 52 to have it also apply to migratory game birds or murres killed or taken as an exercise of a right referred to in section 21.

**Notice**

(4) If the Minister uses the power referred to in subsection (1) or (3), the Minister must post a notice that describes the way the application of these Regulations is varied on a Government of Canada website.

**Duration**

(5) The application of these Regulations is varied during the period beginning on the day on which the notice is posted and ending on July 31 next following that day or on any earlier date fixed by the Minister.

**Prohibition**

(6) If the Minister has altered the open season, the daily bag limit or the possession limit in accordance with paragraph (1)(a), a person must not, during the period referred to in subsection (5), as the case may be,

- (a) hunt except during the open season established by the Minister;

- (b) kill or take, in any one day, a number of migratory game birds or murres of any species or group of species that exceeds the daily bag limit established by the Minister; or

- (c) have in their possession a number of migratory game birds or murres of any species or group of species in excess of the possession limit established by the Minister.

**Prohibition — hunting in an area**

(7) If the Minister has prohibited the hunting of a species of migratory game bird or murre in an area in accordance with paragraph (1)(b), a person must not hunt that species in that area during the period referred to in subsection (5).

### 20 Urgent action

(1) The Minister may vary or suspend the application of these Regulations in a given location if urgent action is needed and if the Minister considers it necessary for the conservation of migratory birds.

**Notice**

(2) The Minister must, on a Government of Canada website, post a notice indicating the ways in which the application of these Regulations is varied or suspended and the location in which their application is varied or suspended.

**Duration of suspension**

(3) The application of these Regulations is varied or suspended during the period beginning on the day on which the notice is posted until the first anniversary of that day or any earlier date fixed by the Minister.

### Section 35 of the *Constitution Act, 1982*

### 21 Hunting and harvesting

(1) An individual exercising a right recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the *Constitution Act, 1982* to hunt migratory birds and harvest their eggs may exercise those rights without a permit and without being subject to a limit as to open seasons, a daily bag limit or a possession limit.

**Inuvialuit**

(2) Beneficiaries of the Inuvialuit Final Agreement approved, given effect and declared valid by the *Western Arctic (Inuvialuit) Claims Settlement Act* may, within the **Inuvialuit Settlement Region**, as defined in section 2 of that Agreement, hunt migratory birds and harvest their eggs without a permit and without being subject to a limit as to open seasons, a daily bag limit or a possession limit.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2024-129, s. 1

</details>

### 22 Right to exchange

(1) An individual exercising a right recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the *Constitution Act, 1982* to exchange a migratory bird with another individual who may exercise such a right is authorized to do so.

**Gift for taxidermy, consumption or training**

(2) An individual who has in their possession a migratory game bird under a right recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the *Constitution Act, 1982* may give it to another person for the purpose of taxidermy, human consumption (including for charitable purposes) or training dogs as retrievers.

**Gift to charity permit holder**

(3) However, the individual must preserve a migratory game bird before giving it to the holder of a charity permit.

**Possession**

(4) Subject to the limits on the possession of migratory game birds set out in section 46 or subsection 51(1), the recipient of such a gift has the right to have it in their possession.

### 23 Gift, sale or exchange of feathers

(1) An individual who has in their possession migratory bird feathers under a right recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the *Constitution Act, 1982* may

- (a) give, sell or exchange those feathers for a functional purpose; and

- (b) give those feathers to another person for educational, social, cultural or spiritual purposes.

**Buying and possession**

(2) A person may

- (a) buy feathers that are sold in accordance with paragraph (1)(a) or exchange things for feathers that are exchanged in accordance with that paragraph; and

- (b) have in their possession any feathers obtained in accordance with subsection (1).

**Restriction**

(3) This section does not authorize giving, selling or exchanging feathers for ornamental or hat-making purposes, unless the person who obtains the feathers may exercise a right recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the *Constitution Act, 1982* to use the feathers for such purposes.

### 24 Rights held by a collectivity

In these Regulations, a requirement to record the number of a permit under which an activity is authorized is, for an individual who is engaging in that activity as an exercise of a right referred to in section 21 or 22, a requirement to record the name of the collectivity holding that right.

## Hunting Migratory Game Birds

### Application

### 25 Scope

This Part applies to the hunting and subsequent possession of migratory game birds. Unless otherwise indicated, it does not apply to activities that are authorized by

- (a) a migratory game bird hunting permit referred to in section 30 and described in Part 3; or

- (b) permits other than a migratory game bird hunting permit.

### 26 **Migratory game birds** including murres

For the purposes of this Part, except as otherwise indicated, **migratory game birds** includes murres.

### Prohibitions

### 27 Unauthorized hunting

(1) A person must not hunt migratory game birds unless authorized by these Regulations.

**General hunting licence**

(2) Subject to the laws of the territory in which the hunt takes place, the holder of a general hunting licence referred to in the *Wildlife Act* of the Northwest Territories, S.N.W.T. 2013, c. 30, or the *Wildlife Act* of Nunavut, S.Nu. 2003, c. 26, as those Acts are amended from time to time, may, within the relevant territory, without a migratory game bird hunting permit, hunt migratory game birds and have in their possession the birds they have hunted.

### 28 Hunting out of season

(1) A person must not hunt a species of migratory game bird in an area referred to in Schedule 3 except during the period beginning on the first day of any open season for that area and that species and ending on the last day of that season.

**Open season on certain land**

(2) If column 4 of Table 1 or Table 2 of any Part of Schedule 3 indicates that an open season applies only on certain land in an area set out in column 1, a person must not hunt a species of migratory game bird set out in column 2 during the open season except on that land.

**Hours hunting is prohibited**

(3) A person must not hunt a migratory game bird

- (a) north of 60° north latitude during the period commencing one hour after sunset on any day and ending one hour before sunrise on the next day; or

- (b) south of 60° north latitude during the period commencing half an hour after sunset on any day and ending half an hour before sunrise on the next day unless otherwise specified in Schedule 3.

### 29 Restrictions with respect to Sandhill Cranes

If, in any calendar year, the Minister or chief provincial wildlife officer has reasonable cause to believe that Whooping Crane may be in any area in the province during the open season for Sandhill Crane in the area, the Minister or chief provincial wildlife officer may prohibit the hunting of Sandhill Crane in that area during the remainder of the calendar year.

### Migratory Game Bird Hunting Permit

### 30 Hunting for human consumption

(1) A migratory game bird hunting permit allows the holder to hunt, primarily for human consumption, migratory game birds other than eggs and to have in their possession the birds they hunted.

**Exception — murres**

(2) A migratory game bird hunting permit does not allow its holder to hunt a murre or to have one in their possession unless they are a **resident** of Newfoundland and Labrador, as defined in section 2 of the *Wild Life Act* of Newfoundland and Labrador, R.S.N.L. 1990, c. W-8.

### 31 Habitat conservation stamp

(1) A person must not hunt migratory game birds under a migratory game bird hunting permit unless a habitat conservation stamp that is authorized by the Minister appears on the permit.

**Fee for stamp**

(2) Subject to subsection 32(1), a person who applies for a migratory game bird hunting permit set out in item 1, column 1, of Schedule 2 must also pay the fee for the habitat conservation stamp set out in item 9, column 2 of Schedule 2.

**Validity**

(3) The habitat conservation stamp is valid for the period of validity of the permit on which it appears.

### 32 Hunting by minors

(1) Minors may obtain a migratory game bird hunting permit set out in item 1, column 1, of Schedule 2 without paying the fee set out in column 2 and may obtain a habitat conservation stamp without paying the fee set out in item 9, column 2 of that Schedule.

**Must be accompanied**

(2) A minor who holds a permit referred to in subsection (1) must not hunt migratory game birds unless they are accompanied by an individual who

- (a) is the holder of a migratory game bird hunting permit;

- (b) has held such a permit in a previous year; and

- (c) is not a minor.

**Number of minors accompanied**

(3) The accompanying individual must not accompany at any one time more than two minors who hold a permit referred to in subsection (1).

### 33 Permit expiry

A migratory game bird hunting permit expires on June 30 following the date of issue.

### 34 Obligation to have permit on person

(1) The holder of a migratory game bird hunting permit must have the permit on their person while they are

- (a) hunting; or

- (b) in a place other than their primary or habitual residence and in possession of a migratory game bird that is not preserved, or any murre, that was hunted under the permit.

**Must show permit**

(2) The permit holder must show the permit to a game officer immediately on request.

### 35 Invalidity of permit after guilty finding

(1) Subject to any court order made under subsection 16(1) of the Act or a decision made by the Minister under section 18.22 of the Act, a migratory game bird hunting permit ceases to be valid when its holder is found guilty of an offence under the Act, other than an offence resulting from the contravention of

- (a) section 5.1 of the Act;

- (b) sections 9 or 34, subsection 48(2), section 78, subsection 79(1) or (2) or section 81 of these Regulations; or

- (c) the following provisions, if the offence is in respect of migratory birds or their eggs that are used for avicultural purposes:
  - (i) section 5 of the Act, or
  - (ii) paragraph 5(1)(a) or subsection 76(3), (4) or (7) of these Regulations.

**Prohibition — application for permit**

(2) Subject to any court order made under subsection 16(1) of the Act, a person who has been found guilty of an offence under the Act other than an offence referred to in paragraphs (1)(a) to (c) must not, during a 12-month period beginning on the day that guilty finding is made, apply for a migratory game bird hunting permit unless they have first obtained the Minister’s permission to do so.

### Hunting Methods and Equipment

### 36 Prohibition – hunting where baiting has occurred

(1) A person must not hunt for migratory game birds within a radius of 400 m from any place where bait has been deposited unless the place has been free of bait for at least seven days or the bait was deposited in accordance with subsection 6(3) or (4) or an aviculture permit.

**Clarification**

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the following areas are not considered areas where bait has been deposited:

- (a) an area of standing crops, whether or not it is flooded;

- (b) an area of harvested cropland that is flooded;

- (c) an area where crops have been harvested and placed in upright sheaves for drying in a field where they grew; and

- (d) an area where grain is scattered solely as a result of normal agricultural or harvesting operations.

### 37 Authorized weapons

(1) A person must not hunt migratory game birds except with

- (a) a bow that has a minimum draw weight of 18 kg and an arrow with a broadhead that has at least two sharp blades and is a minimum of 22 mm wide;

- (b) a crossbow that has a minimum draw weight of 45 kg and a bolt with a broadhead that has at least two sharp blades and is a minimum of 22 mm wide; or

- (c) a shotgun not larger than number 10 gauge that either
  - (i) is designed to be capable of holding no more than three cartridges, or
  - (ii) has had its capacity reduced to three cartridges in the magazine and chamber combined, by means of the cutting off or the altering or plugging of the magazine with a one-piece metal, plastic or wood filler that cannot be removed unless the gun is disassembled.

**Prohibition — cartridges and detachable magazine**

(2) A person must not, while hunting migratory game birds, have in their possession in the hunting area

- (a) a shotgun that is holding more than three cartridges; or

- (b) a detachable magazine capable of holding more than two cartridges.

**Prohibition — possession of shotguns**

(3) A person must not, while hunting migratory game birds, have in their possession in the hunting area

- (a) more than one shotgun, unless each additional shotgun is unloaded and either disassembled or kept in a closed case; or

- (b) a shotgun other than one referred to in paragraph (1)(c).

**Prohibition — single projectile**

(4) A person must not hunt a migratory game bird using a shotgun loaded with a cartridge containing a single projectile.

**Exception**

(5) Despite subsection (1), paragraph (3)(b) and subsection (4), a person may, in the following circumstances, hunt a migratory game bird using a rifle of a calibre of not more than 0.22 inches or a shotgun loaded with a cartridge containing a single projectile and have such a rifle or shotgun in their possession in the hunting area:

- (a) the migratory game bird is hunted in a location that is in the Northwest Territories by a resident of that territory who may hunt migratory game birds in that location without a migratory game bird hunting permit referred to in section 30; or

- (b) the migratory game bird is hunted in a location that is in Quebec and north of 50° north latitude by a resident of that province who may hunt migratory game birds in that location without a migratory game bird hunting permit referred to in section 30.

### 38 Non-toxic shot

(1) A person must not hunt a migratory game bird

- (a) while having in their possession in the hunting area shot other than non-toxic shot; or

- (b) using shot other than non-toxic shot.

**Exception for certain species**

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to hunting American Woodcock, Band-tailed Pigeon, Murres or Eurasian Collared-Dove.

**Exception — Mourning Dove**

(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to hunting Mourning Dove in British Columbia.

**Definition — **non-toxic shot****

(4) For the purpose of this section, **non-toxic shot** means any shot composed, by weight, of

- (a) up to 100% iron, tungsten, tin or bismuth, alone or in any combination of those substances;

- (b) not more than 45% copper;

- (c) not more than 40% nickel;

- (d) not more than 7% Nylon 6, Nylon 11 or ethylene methacrylic acid copolymer, alone or any combination of those substances; and

- (e) not more than 1% all other substances combined.

### 39 Prohibition — birds and electronic bird calls

(1) A person must not hunt a migratory game bird using

- (a) live birds, including non-migratory birds; or

- (b) electronic bird calls, except in an area that is set out in column 1 of Table 2 in the relevant Part of Schedule 3 for which the use of an electronic bird call is set out in column 6.

**Exception — use of raptors**

(2) Despite paragraph (1)(a), migratory game birds may be hunted using raptors in any area of a province that is designated by the province as an area in which a person may hunt using raptors.

### Vehicles

### 40 Prohibition — aircraft and motorized land vehicles

(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person must not hunt a migratory game bird from or using an aircraft or a motorized land vehicle.

**Exception — mobility-impaired person**

(2) However, a mobility-impaired person is permitted to hunt from an aircraft or motorized land vehicle if they are stationary.

**Definition — **mobility-impaired person****

(3) For the purpose of subsection (2), a **mobility-impaired person** is an individual who

- (a) if the hunting occurs in a province with laws allowing mobility-impaired persons to hunt from a stationary vehicle, is authorized to do so under those laws; or

- (b) if the province has no such laws, holds a medical certificate that
  - (i) is signed by a medical practitioner lawfully entitled to practise medicine in any province,
  - (ii) attests that the individual’s mobility impairment is due to a condition that is not temporary and that severely limits the use of their legs, including being paraplegic, being hemiplegic, being dependent on a wheelchair to move about, having prostheses on both legs or having a leg amputated above the knee, and
  - (iii) attests that the medical practitioner has no medical reason to believe that the individual is incapable of competently operating the weapon that they use to hunt.

### 41 Prohibition — moving boats

(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person must not hunt a migratory game bird from or using a moving boat that is equipped with a motor or a sail.

**Exception — murres**

(2) An individual who is authorized to hunt murres may do so from any moving boat.

**Clarification — retrieval**

(3) For greater certainty, subsection (1) does not apply to the retrieval of a migratory game bird once it is legally killed or wounded.

**Moving**

(4) For the purpose of this section, a boat is considered to be moving if it continues to move because of motion that was imparted by its motor or its sails.

### Retrieving Migratory Game Birds

### 42 Means for retrieval

(1) A person must not hunt migratory game birds unless they have adequate means at their immediate disposal for retrieving any such bird that they kill or injure.

**Prompt retrieval of killed bird**

(2) An individual who kills a migratory game bird must ensure that the bird is retrieved as soon as the circumstances permit.

**Prompt retrieval of wounded bird**

(3) An individual who wounds a migratory game bird must ensure that the bird is killed and retrieved as soon as the circumstances permit.

### Daily Bag Limits

### 43 Prohibition

(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person must not in any area kill or take, in any one day, a number of migratory game birds of any species or group of species that exceeds the daily bag limit in that area for that species or group of species as set out in column 5 of Table 1 or, if applicable, of Table 2 of any Part of Schedule 3.

**Hunting in multiple areas**

(2) For an individual who hunts in more than one area set out in Table 1 or, if applicable, in Table 2 of one or more Parts of Schedule 3 in a single day, the limit in subsection (1) is the highest daily bag limit of all of the areas in which the individual hunts on that day.

**Birds found dead or wounded**

(3) For the purpose of subsection (1), a bird that is found dead and taken or found wounded, killed and taken must be included in the daily bag limit of the migratory game bird hunting permit holder who accepts to keep it, whether or not that permit holder hunted that bird.

### 44 Prohibition — daily bag limit reached

A person must not hunt migratory game birds of a given species once they have, on any given day, killed or taken the number of birds of that species or group of species that is referred to in section 43.

### Possession

### 45 Fully-feathered wing or head

A migratory game bird that is eviscerated and plucked in accordance with paragraph (a) of the definition **preserved** in subsection 1(1) must continue to have a fully feathered wing or the fully feathered head attached until the migratory game bird is being frozen, made into sausage, cooked, dried, canned or smoked as described in that paragraph.

### 46 Possession limit

(1) Subject to subsection (3), a person must not have in their possession in any area at any time, a number of migratory game birds of a given species or group of species that were killed or taken under a migratory game bird hunting permit and that are not preserved that is in excess of the possession limit for that area and the species or group of species set out in column 3 of Table 1 or, if applicable, of Table 2 of any Part of Schedule 3.

**Possession limit for murres**

(2) A person must not have in their possession in any area at any time, a number of murres that were killed or taken under a migratory game bird hunting permit that is in excess of the possession limit for murres for that area.

**Exception — multiple areas**

(3) For an individual who has in their possession migratory game birds that are not preserved, or any murres, that were hunted in one or more areas set out in Table 1 or, if applicable, in Table 2 of one or more Parts of Schedule 3, other than the one in which the individual is located, the possession limit that applies for the purposes of subsection (1) or (2) is the greater of the possession limit for the area in which the birds were hunted and the possession limit for the area in which the individual is located.

**Birds from other provinces**

(4) Subsection (3) does not apply to an individual who hunted in an area that is in a province other than the one in which they are located unless they have on their person proof that they are authorized to hunt under provincial law in the area where the bird was hunted.

**Gift of birds**

(5) For the purposes of subsection (1) or (2), a migratory game bird that is not preserved, or any murre, that is given is counted towards the possession limit of the recipient of the gift once they accept it.

### 47 No longer counted

A migratory game bird is no longer counted towards an individual’s possession limit referred to in subsection 46(1) or (2) when they

- (a) give it to another person, if the gift is accepted in accordance with subsection 46(5); or

- (b) in the case of a migratory bird that is not a murre, preserve it.

### 48 Temporary third-party possession

(1) Any person may temporarily have in their possession a migratory game bird on behalf of the owner.

**Exception**

(2) However, a person must not temporarily have in their possession a migratory game bird for the purpose of performing taxidermy for profit unless they hold a taxidermist permit.

### 49 Murre or unpreserved game bird

(1) For the purposes of section 46, a migratory game bird that is not preserved, or any murre, that is possessed under subsection 48(1) counts towards the owner’s possession limit, and not towards the possession limit of the person who temporarily has it in their possession.

**Restriction respecting murres**

(2) The number of unpreserved murres that belong to other persons that a person temporarily has in their possession must not be greater than twice the daily bag limit referred to in section 43.

### 50 Prohibition — transfer of possession

(1) A person who kills or takes a migratory game bird must not allow it to enter the possession, including the temporary possession, of another person unless it is labelled or preserved.

**Labelling obligation of possessor**

(2) A person who has in their possession a migratory game bird that is not preserved and that was taken under a migratory game bird hunting permit referred to in section 30 or as an exercise of a right referred to in section 21 must ensure that it is labelled unless that person took that bird themselves.

**Exception**

(3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply if the bird was killed or taken by an individual who is exercising a right referred to in section 21 and the recipient may also exercise such a right.

**Individual or group labelling**

(4) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), a bird is considered to be labelled if a label is attached to it or if it is a part of a group of birds labelled in accordance with subsection (6).

**Label requirements**

(5) The label must

- (a) indicate
  - (i) the full name and contact information of the individual who took the bird,
  - (ii) the date the bird was taken, and
  - (iii) the number of the migratory game bird hunting permit under which the bird was taken; and

- (b) be signed by the individual who took the bird.

**Group labelling**

(6) Migratory game birds may be labelled as a group by packaging unlabelled birds in a package that is labelled or that contains a labelled bird, if the label satisfies the requirements set out in subsection (5) in respect of each bird.

### 51 Training retriever dogs

(1) Section 46 does not apply to a person who is registered as a dog trainer with the Minister and who has in their possession migratory game birds, other than murres, for the purpose of training dogs as retrievers. However, the person must not have in their possession more than 200 migratory game birds that are not preserved and that were taken under a right recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the *Constitution Act, 1982*, a migratory game bird hunting permit referred to in section 30, a provincial killing permit that is referred to in section 64 or a scaring or killing permit that is referred to in section 65.

**Exception — species at risk**

(2) However, the registered person must not have in their possession a migratory game bird that is of a species listed in Schedule 1 to the *Species at Risk Act*.

**Location of storage**

(3) The registered person must store the migratory game birds in the location specified to the Minister at the time of registration, except when they are being used for dog training.

**Expiry**

(4) The registration expires on July 31 next following the date of registration.

**Records**

(5) A registered person must keep records showing, in respect of the dead migratory game birds in their possession,

- (a) the name of each species and the number of birds belonging to each species; and

- (b) the full name and contact information of the individual who took each migratory game bird and the number of the permit under which it was taken.

**Exception — labelling**

(6) Subsection 50(1) does not apply in respect of a gift to a registered person and subsection 50(2) does not apply to such a person.

### 52 Fully feathered wing or head

(1) A person must not have in their possession or transport a migratory game bird that is not preserved and that was killed or taken under a migratory game bird hunting permit referred to in section 30 unless at least one fully feathered wing or the fully feathered head is attached to the bird to allow its species to be identified.

**Identification of species**

(2) The possessor or transporter of the migratory game birds referred to in subsection (1) must store them in a manner which allows each bird to be counted and its species to be identified.

### 53 Feathers

(1) The holder of a migratory game bird hunting permit may give, sell or exchange the feathers of a migratory game bird that they have in their possession under that permit for a functional purpose.

**Buying and possession**

(2) Any person may

- (a) buy feathers that are sold in accordance with subsection (1) or exchange things for feathers that are exchanged in accordance with that subsection; and

- (b) have in their possession any feathers obtained in accordance with subsection (1).

### 54 Gift for taxidermy, consumption or training

(1) An individual who hunts a migratory game bird under a migratory game bird hunting permit may give the bird to another person for the purpose of taxidermy, human consumption (including for charitable purposes) or training dogs as retrievers.

**Gift to charity permit holder**

(2) However, the individual must preserve a migratory game bird before giving it to the holder of a charity permit.

**Possession**

(3) Subject to the limits on the possession of migratory game birds set out in section 46 or subsection 51(1) the recipient of such a gift has the right to have it in their possession.

### 55 Prohibition — abandoning

(1) A person who has in their possession a migratory game bird whose meat is fit for human consumption must not allow the meat

- (a) subject to subsection 9(4) of the Act, to be abandoned; or

- (b) to become inedible for humans.

**Gift**

(2) Subsection (1) applies to a person who offers to give the migratory game bird to another person until that gift is accepted by that other person.

**Exception**

(3) Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of a migratory game bird that is used for taxidermy or for training dogs as retrievers.

### 56 Private conveyance

Sections 10 and 50 do not apply to an individual who is transporting a migratory game bird on board a private conveyance if the bird was hunted legally by an individual who is in the private conveyance.

## Overabundance, Damage and Danger

### Interpretation

### 57 Definition of **resident**

For the purposes of this Part, **resident** means, in relation to a province, an individual whose primary or habitual residence is in that province.

### Application

### 58 Scope

This Part applies to the management of migratory birds for the purpose of reducing the danger that they are causing or are likely to cause to human health or public safety or the damage they are causing or are likely to cause to agricultural, environmental or other interests.

### Overabundant Species

### 59 Permit

(1) A migratory game bird hunting permit referred to in section 30 allows the permit holder to kill, take and have in their possession birds of an overabundant species, but not the eggs of such birds.

**Areas and periods**

(2) Subsection (1) only permits birds to be killed in the areas set out in column 1 of Table 2 of any Part of Schedule 3 and during the open seasons set out in column 4.

### 60 Part 2 provisions that apply

(1) Sections 28, 31, 32, 34, 38 and 42 to 56 apply to an individual who kills a bird of an overabundant species.

**Methods and equipment**

(2) Subject to sections 61 and 62, the prohibitions on hunting methods and equipment set out in sections 36, 37 and 39 to 41 apply to an individual who kills a bird of an overabundant species, unless the bird is killed in an area set out in column 1 of Table 2 in the appropriate Part of Schedule 3 during an open season set out in column 4 for which that hunting method or equipment is set out in column 6.

**Hunting using electronic calls**

(3) Despite section 39, an individual who is attempting to kill birds of an overabundant species using electronic bird calls of that species set out in column 6 of Table 2 of the appropriate Part of Schedule 3 during the open season set out in column 4 may, in an area set out in column 1, hunt migratory game birds of a species of migratory game birds that is not overabundant for which it is the open season.

### 61 Depositing bait in spring — Quebec

(1) The prohibition on hunting using bait set out in section 36 applies to an individual who kills migratory game birds of an overabundant species, unless the killing takes place on a parcel of land in an area of Quebec set out in column 1 of Table 2 of Part 5 of Schedule 3 for which the method and equipment set out in column 6 indicate that killing using bait is permitted during the open season set out in column 4 and, at least 30 days before the bait is deposited, the Minister consents in writing to the depositing of bait and the killing of birds of an overabundant species as set out in column 2 on that parcel of land.

**Conditions**

(2) The Minister may give the consent referred to in subsection (1) if the Minister is provided with the following documents and information:

- (a) letters of agreement, signed by the holder of a migratory game bird hunting permit and by the owners, lessees, tenants and occupants of the parcel of land on which the bait is to be deposited, in which those owners, lessees, tenants and occupants give their consent to the killing of birds by hunting on the parcel of land during the period set out in the letters and to the depositing of bait on the parcel of land for that purpose;

- (b) a map of the parcel of land that clearly indicates its location and dimensions and the places where bait is to be deposited;

- (c) information that specifies the type of crop that is being or was most recently grown on the parcel of land, if any; and

- (d) an undertaking in writing from the permit holder referred to in paragraph (a) that they will
  - (i) ensure that, before bait is deposited on the parcel of land, signs whose type and wording comply with the Minister’s instructions are posted in locations that are satisfactory to the Minister,
  - (ii) ensure that at least 1 000 kg of bait is deposited on the parcel of land, and
  - (iii) provide the Minister, within 21 days after the end of the open season set out in column 4 of Table 2 of Part 5 of Schedule 3 during which the killing took place, with a written report specifying the days on which the killing took place, the number of migratory game bird hunting permit holders involved and the number of birds of each species set out in column 2 that were killed on each day.

**Withdrawal of consent**

(3) The Minister may withdraw the consent if the permit holder fails to comply with an undertaking described in subparagraph (2)(d)(i) or (ii).

### 62 Killing near cut crops in fall — Quebec

(1) The prohibition set out in section 36 applies to an individual who kills birds of an overabundant species of migratory game birds in Quebec unless

- (a) the bird is killed in an area referred to in column 1 of Table 2 of Part 5 of Schedule 3 for which killing using bait is set out in column 6;

- (b) the bait that has been deposited is crops that are cut and left on the ground; and

- (c) at least 30 days before the birds are killed, the Minister consented in writing to the killing of birds of that overabundant species within a radius of 400 m from the place where the bait has been deposited.

**Conditions**

(2) The Minister may give the consent referred to in paragraph (1)(c) if the Minister is provided with the following documents and information:

- (a) letters of agreement, signed by the holder of a migratory game bird hunting permit and by the owners, lessees, tenants and occupants of the land within a radius of 400 m of the place where crops are cut and left on the ground in which those owners, lessees, tenants and occupants indicate that they are aware that hunting migratory game birds, other than birds of an overabundant species, is prohibited within the radius and give their consent to the killing of birds by hunting of an overabundant species within that radius during the period set out in the letters;

- (b) a map of the place where crops are cut and left on the ground that clearly indicates its location and dimensions;

- (c) the type of crop that is being cut and left on the ground; and

- (d) an undertaking in writing from the permit holder referred to in paragraph (a) that they will
  - (i) ensure that, before birds are killed within that radius, signs whose type and wording comply with the Minister’s instructions are posted in locations that are satisfactory to the Minister, and
  - (ii) provide the Minister, within 21 days after the end of the open season set out in column 4 of Table 2 of Part 5 of Schedule 3, with a written report specifying the days on which birds were killed, the number of hunters involved and the number of birds of each species set out in column 2 of that Table that were killed on each day.

**Withdrawal of consent**

(3) The Minister may withdraw the consent if the permit holder fails to comply with the undertaking described in subparagraph (2)(d)(i).

### Birds Causing Damage or Danger

### 63 Scaring birds

(1) Despite the prohibition on harassing a migratory bird set out in paragraph 5(1)(a), a person may, without a permit, use equipment other than an aircraft or firearms to scare migratory birds that are causing or are likely to cause danger to human health or public safety or damage to agricultural, environmental or other interests.

**Provincial scaring permit**

(2) The chief provincial wildlife officer, with the concurrence of the Minister, may issue a permit to any resident of the province to use an aircraft or firearms, in a specified area and during a specified time, for the purpose of scaring migratory birds that are causing or likely to cause damage to crops or other property in the area.

### 64 Provincial killing permit

(1) If the chief provincial wildlife officer and the Minister are satisfied that scaring migratory birds is not a sufficient deterrent to prevent the birds from causing serious damage to crops or other property in a province, the chief provincial wildlife officer may issue a permit to any resident of the province to kill migratory birds of a specified species during a specified time and in a specified area.

**Possession**

(2) The holder of the permit referred to in subsection (1) may take and have in their possession migratory birds killed under its authority.

**Cancellation**

(3) The chief provincial wildlife officer may cancel a permit issued under subsection (1).

### 65 Federal scaring or killing permit

(1) The Minister may issue a scaring or killing permit only to a person who

- (a) owns, leases or manages a parcel of land;

- (b) holds or is the authorized representative of a person who holds an easement, real servitude, right-of-way or licence of occupation in respect of a parcel of land; or

- (c) has or is the authorized representative of a person who has rights under the laws of a province to use a parcel of land for public utilities or public infrastructure.

**Rights of permit holder and nominees**

(2) The permit describes the parcel of land and authorizes its holder and their nominees, within that parcel of land and subject to the conditions of the permit, to scare migratory birds with an aircraft or firearm or to kill them, if those birds are causing or are likely to cause danger to human health or public safety or damage to agricultural, environmental or other interests, and to take and have in their possession migratory birds killed under its authority.

**Nomination**

(3) The permit holder may nominate, from among the residents of the province in which the parcel of land described in the permit is situated, as many nominees as are specified in the permit.

**Requirement**

(4) A nomination by a permit holder must be in writing and the nominee must carry the nomination on their person at all times while they are performing the activities authorized by the permit.

**Obligations after expiry or cancellation**

(5) A person to whom a permit was issued must, within 15 days after its expiry or cancellation,

- (a) return it to the Minister; and

- (b) report to the Minister any information with respect to the birds killed under its authority that the Minister requires.

**Validity**

(6) In addition to the cases of invalidity set out in section 14, a permit that was issued to prevent damage to a crop in the parcel of land described in the permit ceases to be valid when that crop is harvested.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-149, s. 1

</details>

### 66 Fully feathered wing or head

(1) A person must not have in their possession a migratory bird that is not preserved and that was killed under a provincial killing permit that is referred to in section 64 or a scaring or killing permit that is referred to in section 65 unless at least one fully feathered wing or the fully feathered head is attached to the bird to allow its species to be identified.

**Identification of species**

(2) The possessor or transporter of migratory birds referred to in subsection (1) must store them in a manner which allows each bird to be counted and its species to be identified.

### 67 Gift for consumption, taxidermy or training

(1) A permit referred to in section 64 or 65 allows its holder, subject to the conditions of the permit, to give a migratory game bird to a person for the purpose of human consumption (including for charitable purposes), taxidermy or training dogs as retrievers if

- (a) the bird was killed under the permit; and

- (b) the bird is of a species that may be hunted under a migratory game bird hunting permit in any area set out in column 1 of Table 1 or Table 2 of any Part of Schedule 3.

**Gift to charity permit holder**

(2) However, the holder of a permit referred to in subsection (1) must preserve a migratory game bird before giving it to the holder of a charity permit.

**Possession**

(3) Subject to the limit on the possession of unpreserved migratory game birds set out in section 46 or subsection 51(1), the recipient of such a gift has the right to have it in their possession.

### 68 Prohibition — giving without label

(1) A person who kills or takes a migratory bird under a permit referred to in section 64 or 65 must not give the migratory bird to a person other than the permit holder or a nominee referred to in subsection 65(3), unless it is labelled or preserved.

**Prohibition — unlabelled birds**

(2) A person must not have in their possession a migratory bird referred to in subsection (1) unless that person, or their nominee referred to in subsection 65(3), killed that bird themselves or the bird is labelled or preserved.

**Labels on birds or groups**

(3) For the purpose of subsections (1) and (2), a bird is considered to be labelled if a label is attached to it or if it is a part of a group labelled in accordance with subsection (5).

**Label requirements**

(4) The label must

- (a) indicate
  - (i) the full name and contact information of the permit holder,
  - (ii) the date the bird was killed, and
  - (iii) the number of the permit under which the bird was killed; and

- (b) be signed by the holder of the permit under which the bird was killed.

**Labelled package**

(5) Migratory birds may be labelled as a group by packaging unlabelled birds in a package that is labelled or that contains a labelled bird, if the label satisfies the requirements of subsection (4) in respect of each bird.

**Exception — labelling**

(6) This section does not apply if the migratory bird is given to a person who is registered as a dog trainer referred to in section 51.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-149, s. 2

</details>

### 69 Prohibition

(1) A holder of a permit referred to in section 64 or 65 must not do any of the following:

- (a) if the permit was issued to prevent damage to crops, shoot migratory birds elsewhere than on or over fields containing those crops;

- (b) discharge firearms within 50 m of any body of water;

- (c) use decoys or bird calls to attract migratory birds; or

- (d) use blinds or other concealment.

**Definition of **decoy****

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a **decoy** includes an artificial bird or any device that imitates the colour, shape or size of a migratory bird and that may attract migratory birds.

### 70 Permit to destroy eggs or nests

(1) An egg or nest destruction permit allows its holder and their nominees named in the permit to take and destroy the eggs of the species of migratory birds specified in the permit and to remove and destroy the nests of the species of migratory birds specified in the permit in an area described in that permit and subject to the conditions of that permit, and to dispose of the eggs or nests in the manner provided in the permit.

**Conditions**

(2) The Minister may issue an egg or nest destruction permit only if the Minister has reason to believe that the destruction of the eggs or nests is necessary to reduce or prevent the danger that migratory birds are causing or are likely to cause to human health or to public safety or the damage they are causing or are likely to cause to agricultural, environmental or other interests.

**Eligible permit holder**

(3) An egg or nest destruction permit may be issued only to a person who

- (a) owns, leases or manages a parcel of land that is situated in the area described in the permit;

- (b) holds or is the authorized representative of a person who holds an easement, real servitude, right-of-way or licence of occupation in respect of a parcel of land that is situated in that area; or

- (c) has or is the authorized representative of a person who has rights under the laws of a province to use a parcel of land that is situated in that area for public utilities or public infrastructure.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-149, s. 3

</details>

### 71 Relocation permit

(1) A relocation permit allows its holder or their nominees named in the permit to undertake activities for the purpose of relocating the migratory birds, eggs and nests described in the permit, in the manner set out in the permit and subject to the conditions of that permit, including

- (a) the capture of migratory birds, the taking of eggs and the removal of nests in an area described in the permit;

- (b) the transport of those migratory birds, eggs and nests to the other area described in the permit; and

- (c) the release of those migratory birds, and the placement of those eggs and nests, in that other area.

**Conditions**

(2) The Minister may issue a relocation permit only if the Minister has reason to believe that

- (a) the relocation of birds, eggs and nests is necessary to prevent or reduce
  - (i) the danger that migratory birds are causing or are likely to cause to human health or to public safety in one or more areas, or
  - (ii) the damage that migratory birds are causing or are likely to cause to the use of the land or to agricultural interests; and

- (b) other means are not sufficient to prevent or reduce the danger or damage.

**Eligible permit holder**

(3) A relocation permit may be issued only to a person who

- (a) owns, leases or manages a parcel of land that is situated in the area described in the permit from which the birds are captured, the eggs are taken or the nests are removed;

- (b) holds or is the authorized representative of a person who holds an easement, real servitude, right-of-way or licence of occupation in respect of a parcel of land that is situated in that area; or

- (c) has or is the authorized representative of a person who has rights under the laws of a province to use a parcel of land that is situated in that area for public utilities or public infrastructure.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2023-149, s. 4

</details>

### Danger to Aircraft

### 72 Airport permit

(1) An airport permit allows its holder or their nominee, subject to the conditions of the permit, to scare migratory birds with a firearm or aircraft or to kill and take them, if those birds are within the perimeter of an airport and that person considers them to be a danger to aircraft operating at the airport.

**Possession**

(2) The permit holder or their nominee must not have in their possession birds killed or taken under the permit except for the purpose of disposing of them in the manner described in the permit.

**Eligible permit holder**

(3) The permit may only be issued to the manager of a civilian airport or to the commanding officer of a military airport.

### Toxic Shot

### 73 Prohibition

A holder of a permit referred to in section 64, 65 or 72 must not use or have in their possession any shot other than non-toxic shot, as described in section 38, for the purpose of scaring or killing birds in accordance with the permit.

## Other Activities

### 74 Scope

This Part applies to the following permits:

- (a) scientific permits;

- (b) aviculture permits;

- (c) taxidermist permits;

- (d) eiderdown commerce permits; and

- (e) charity permits.

### 75 Scientific permit

(1) A scientific permit may be issued by the Minister to a person who acts with a scientific, rehabilitation or educational purpose if the Minister is of the opinion that that person has the skills required to perform the activities for which the permit is issued.

**Powers of permit holder**

(2) A holder of a scientific permit may, for scientific purposes, including banding, or for rehabilitation or educational purposes, do one or more of the following activities subject to the conditions of the permit, if the activity is listed on the permit:

- (a) capture, kill, injure or harass a migratory bird;

- (b) destroy, take or disturb an egg;

- (c) damage, destroy, remove or disturb a nest;

- (d) deposit bait in any place during the period referred to in subsection 6(1), in accordance with subsections 6(3) to (5);

- (e) exchange, give or have in their possession a migratory bird, egg or nest; and

- (f) if they are authorized to capture and band a migratory bird, take birds that are killed as a result of normal banding operations or that are found dead.

**Nominees**

(3) The Minister may

- (a) on the request of an applicant or a permit holder, add nominees to the permit; or

- (b) remove nominees from the permit.

**Rights of nominee**

(4) A nominee who is designated on the permit and who is acting on behalf of the permit holder may, for a purpose other than banding and subject to the conditions of the permit, engage in the activities that are referred to in subsection (2) and listed on the permit.

**Permit holder obligations**

(5) The holder of a scientific permit must, while performing the activities authorized by the permit,

- (a) have the permit on their person; and

- (b) show the permit to a game officer immediately on request.

**Nominee obligations**

(6) A nominee must, while performing any activity authorized by the permit,

- (a) have a copy of the permit on their person; and

- (b) show that copy to a game officer immediately on request.

**Records and information**

(7) The holder of a scientific permit must

- (a) immediately after capturing, killing or taking a migratory bird, destroying, taking or disturbing an egg or damaging, destroying, removing or disturbing a nest, record the exact number of such birds, eggs or nests and their species; and

- (b) record any additional information that the Minister requires.

**Report**

(8) A person to whom a scientific permit was issued must submit a report in writing to the Minister that contains the information recorded in accordance with subsection (7).

**Disposal**

(9) The holder of a scientific permit who takes a bird referred to in paragraph (2)(f) must dispose of it in accordance with the conditions of their permit.

### 76 Aviculture permit

(1) Subject to the conditions of the permit, an aviculture permit allows its holder to

- (a) buy, sell, exchange, give or have in their possession live migratory birds or their eggs for avicultural purposes;

- (b) subject to subsection (5), deposit bait to feed migratory birds that are bought, sold, exchanged, captured or possessed under the permit; and

- (c) kill migratory birds that they possess under the permit for the purpose of human consumption but not for sale or any other purpose.

**Capturing birds and taking eggs**

(2) The holder of an aviculture permit that contains an explicit authorization to capture migratory birds or take their eggs from the wild may, subject to the conditions of the permit, do so for avicultural purposes.

**Prohibition on killing by shooting**

(3) The holder of an aviculture permit must not kill migratory birds they have in their possession under that permit by shooting them.

**Prohibition on releasing into the wild**

(4) A person must not release a migratory bird possessed under an aviculture permit into the wild unless the Minister authorizes the release.

**Feeding birds**

(5) Despite subsections 6(1) and (2), the holder of an aviculture permit is authorized to deposit bait in order to feed the migratory birds possessed under that permit during the period referred to in subsection 6(1).

**Bait location**

(6) However, the permit holder must deposit the bait in a location that is specified in the permit and that is not visible to birds flying above the location.

**Obligations**

(7) The person to whom the permit is issued must

- (a) keep records that correctly show at all times
  - (i) the number and species of migratory birds in their possession,
  - (ii) the number and species of eggs in their possession, and
  - (iii) full details of all dealings in migratory birds, whether by sale, exchange, loan or gift, including the full name and contact information and the permit number of every person who receives those migratory birds; and

- (b) on or before January 31 of the year following each calendar year in which they held a permit referred to in subsection (1), submit a report in writing to the Minister in respect of the calendar year for which the permit was issued, stating
  - (i) the number of migratory birds of each species they reared during that calendar year,
  - (ii) the number of migratory birds of each species they killed during that calendar year,
  - (iii) the number of live migratory birds of each species and the number of eggs of each species they sold during that calendar year together with the full name and contact information and the permit number of each person to whom those birds or eggs were sold,
  - (iv) the number of live migratory birds of each species and the number of eggs of each species they purchased during that calendar year together with the full name and contact information and the permit number of each person from whom those birds or eggs were purchased,
  - (v) the number of live migratory birds of each species and the number of eggs of each species they gave during that calendar year together with the full name and contact information and the permit number of each person to whom those birds or eggs were given,
  - (vi) the number of live migratory birds of each species and the number of eggs of each species in their possession at the end of that calendar year, and
  - (vii) any other information the Minister requires.

### 77 Taxidermist permit

A taxidermist permit allows a taxidermist who is its holder, subject to the conditions of the permit, to have in their possession a migratory bird for the purpose of providing taxidermy services for profit.

### 78 Written statement

A taxidermist permit holder must not receive or accept a migratory bird for mounting unless the bird is accompanied by a statement in writing that is signed by the owner and indicates the owner’s full name and contact information, the permit number under which the bird was killed and the circumstances under which it was killed, including the date and the place.

### 79 Records

(1) A taxidermist permit holder must keep records showing, in respect of the migratory birds and eggs they have received,

- (a) the name of each species and the number of birds and eggs belonging to each species;

- (b) the date, place and other circumstances of the killing or taking of the birds and the taking of the eggs;

- (c) the date on which the birds and eggs were received; and

- (d) the full names and contact information of the owners of the birds and eggs, the permit numbers under which they were killed or taken and the persons from whom they were received by the taxidermist.

**Report**

(2) A person to whom a taxidermist permit is issued must submit an annual report to the Minister respecting the information referred to in subsection (1) or any other reports the Minister requires.

**Validity**

(3) In addition to the cases of invalidity set out in section 14, no taxidermist permit is valid if the person to whom it was issued fails to meet the requirements of this section.

### 80 Eiderdown commerce permit

An eiderdown commerce permit allows its holder, subject to the conditions of the permit, to collect or sell eiderdown or to have it in their possession.

### 81 Obligation – leaving sufficient eiderdown

A person who has the right to collect eiderdown must leave sufficient eiderdown in each nest from which they collect it to protect eggs from predators or environmental chilling.

### 82 Charity permit

(1) A holder of a charity permit and any person nominated on the permit in accordance with subsection (2) may, subject to the conditions of the permit, serve preserved migratory game birds and murres at a charitable fundraising event related to migratory bird conservation or a soup kitchen, or give them to the clients of a food bank.

**Nominees**

(2) The Minister may

- (a) on the request of an applicant or a permit holder, add nominees to the permit; or

- (b) remove nominees from the permit.

**Fundraising**

(3) Any profits made from serving migratory game birds or murres at a fundraising event must be used to protect or conserve wildlife.

**Permit holder obligations**

(4) The person to whom a charity permit is issued must

- (a) keep records of the number of each species of preserved migratory game birds and murres received in each calendar year, the full name and contact information of the individual who took each migratory game bird or murre and the number of the permit under which it was killed; and

- (b) if the preserved migratory game bird or murre was served as part of a charitable fundraising dinner, maintain until the first anniversary of the fundraiser records of all expenditures and revenues of the event and the manner in which the profits were used.

## Consequential Amendments, Repeal and Coming into Force

### Consequential Amendments

#### *Migratory Birds Convention Act, 1994*

#### *Migratory Bird Sanctuary Regulations*

### 83

[Amendments]

### 84

[Amendments]

#### *Designation of Regulatory Provisions for Purposes of Enforcement (Migratory Birds Convention Act, 1994) Regulations*

### 85

[Amendments]

#### *Canada National Parks Act*

#### *Wood Buffalo National Park Game Regulations*

### 86

[Amendments]

### 87

[Amendments]

#### *National Parks Wildlife Regulations*

### 88

[Amendments]

#### *Environmental Violations Administrative Monetary Penalties Act*

#### *Environmental Violations Administrative Monetary Penalties Regulations*

### 89

[Amendments]

### 90

[Amendments]

### Repeal

### 91

The *Migratory Birds Regulations*[^] are repealed.

### Coming into Force

### 92 July 30, 2022

These Regulations come into force on July 30, 2022, but if they are registered after that day, they come into force on the day on which they are registered.

> Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of the Environment, makes the annexed *Migratory Birds Regulations, 2022* pursuant to



## SCHEDULE 1  Notice to Minister Concerning Nest to be Damaged, Destroyed, Removed or Disturbed

(Paragraphs 5(2)(b) and (c))

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
| Item | Scientific Name | Common Name | Number of Months |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Cepphus columba | Pigeon Guillemot | 12 |
| 2 | Cerorhinca monocerata | Rhinoceros Auklet | 12 |
| 3 | Fratercula arctica | Atlantic Puffin | 12 |
| 4 | Fratercula cirrhata | Tufted Puffin | 12 |
| 5 | Fratercula corniculata | Horned Puffin | 12 |
| 6 | Ptychoramphus aleuticus | Cassin’s Auklet | 12 |
| 7 | Synthliboramphus antiquus | Ancient Murrelet | 12 |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
| Item | Scientific Name | Common Name | Number of Months |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Ardea alba | Great Egret | 24 |
| 2 | Ardea herodias | Great Blue Heron | 24 |
| 3 | Bubulcus ibis | Cattle Egret | 24 |
| 4 | Butorides virescens | Green Heron | 24 |
| 5 | Egretta thula | Snowy Egret | 24 |
| 6 | Nycticorax nycticorax | Black-crowned Night Heron | 24 |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
| Item | Scientific Name | Common Name | Number of Months |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Hydrobates furcatus | Fork-tailed Storm-petrel | 12 |
| 2 | Oceanodroma leucorhoa | Leach’s Storm-petrel | 12 |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
| Item | Scientific Name | Common Name | Number of Months |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Dryocopus pileatus | Pileated Woodpecker | 36 |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
| Item | Scientific Name | Common Name | Number of Months |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Puffinus puffinus | Manx Shearwater | 12 |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
| Item | Scientific Name | Common Name | Number of Months |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Morus bassanus | Northern Gannet | 12 |


## SCHEDULE 2  Cost of Documents

(Paragraph 12(2)(a) and subsections 31(2) and 32(1))

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 |
| Item | Document | Fee |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Migratory game bird hunting permit ... | $8.50 |
| 2 | Any damage or danger permit ... | $0.00 |
| 3 | Airport permit ... | $0.00 |
| 4 | Scientific permit ... | $0.00 |
| 5 | Aviculture permit ... | $10.00 |
| 6 | Taxidermist permit ... | $10.00 |
| 7 | Eiderdown commerce permit ... | $10.00 |
| 8 | Charity permit ... | $0.00 |
| 9 | Habitat conservation stamp ... | $8.50 |


## SCHEDULE 3  Open Seasons, Limits and Special Measures

(Subsections 1(1), 6(1), 19(1) and 28(1) and (2), paragraphs 28(3)(b) and 39(1)(b), subsections 43(1) and (2), 46(1) and (3), 59(2), 60(2) and (3) and 61(1), subparagraph 61(2)(d)(iii), paragraph 62(1)(a), subparagraph 62(2)(d)(ii) and paragraph 67(1)(b))

### Newfoundland and Labrador

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Northwestern Coastal Newfoundland Zone | (a)Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters, combined | 12 | November 1 to February 15 | 6 |
| (b)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, combined | 12 | October 10 to January 24 | 6 |  |  |
| (c)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | September 16 to December 31 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (d)all Geese, combined | 10 | September 16 to December 31 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | September 16 to December 31 | 10 |  |  |
| 2 | Avalon-Burin Coastal Newfoundland Zone, Northeastern Coastal Newfoundland Zone, Northern Coastal Newfoundland Zone, Southern Coastal Newfoundland Zone, and Southwestern Newfoundland Coastal Zone | (a)Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters, combined | 12 | November 24 to March 10 | 6 |
| (b)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, combined | 12 | October 10 to January 24 | 6 |  |  |
| (c)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | September 16 to December 31 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (d)All Geese, combined | 10 | September 16 to December 31 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | September 16 to December 31 | 10 |  |  |
| 3 | Inland Newfoundland Zone | (a)Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |
| (b)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, combined | 12 | October 10 to January 24 | 6 |  |  |
| (c)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | September 16 to December 31 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (d)all Geese, combined | 10 | September 16 to December 31 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | September 16 to December 31 | 10 |  |  |
| 4 | Northern Labrador Zone | (a)all Eiders and Scoters, combined | 12 | (i)September 1 to September 25, for Scoters only | 6 |
| (ii)September 26 to December 16 | 6 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)December 17 to January 10, for Eiders only | 6 |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, combined | 12 | September 1 to December 16 | 6 |  |  |
| (c)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | September 1 to December 16 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (d)all Geese, combined | 10 | September 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | September 1 to December 16 | 10 |  |  |
| 5 | Western Labrador Zone | (a)all Eiders and Scoters, combined | 12 | September 1 to December 16 | 6 |
| (b)[Repealed, SOR/2024-129, s. 6] |  |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, combined | 12 | September 1 to December 16 | 6 |  |  |
| (d)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | September 1 to December 16 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (e)all Geese, combined | 10 | September 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 20 | September 1 to December 16 | 10 |  |  |
| 6 | Southern Labrador Zone | (a)all Eiders and Scoters, combined | 12 | (i)September 1 to October 31, for Scoters only | 6 |
| (ii)November 1 to December 16 | 6 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)December 17 to February 15, for Eiders only | 6 |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, combined | 12 | September 1 to December 16 | 6 |  |  |
| (c)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | September 1 to December 16 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (d)all Geese, combined | 10 | September 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | September 1 to December 16 | 10 |  |  |
| 7 | Central Labrador Zone | (a)all Eiders and Scoters, combined | 12 | (i)September 1 to October 24, for Scoters only | 6 |
| (ii)October 25 to November 30 | 6 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)December 1 to December 16, for Scoters only | 6 |  |  |  |  |
| (iv)December 21 to February 28, for Eiders only | 6 |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, combined | 12 | September 1 to December 16 | 6 |  |  |
| (c)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | September 1 to December 16 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (d)all Geese, combined | 10 | September 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | September 1 to December 16 | 10 |  |  |
| 8 | Murre Zone No. 1 | Murres | 40 | September 1 to December 16 | 20 |
| 9 | Murre Zone No. 2 | Murres | 40 | October 6 to January 20 | 20 |
| 10 | Murre Zone No. 3 | Murres | 40 | November 25 to March 10 | 20 |
| 11 | Murre Zone No. 4 | Murres | 40 | (a)November 3 to January 10 | 20 |
| (b)February 2 to March 10 | 20 |  |  |  |  |

### Prince Edward Island

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Throughout Prince Edward Island | (a)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters, combined | 12 (not more than 8 may be Eiders and not more than 8 may be Scoters) | October 1 to January 15 | 6 (not more than 4 may be Eiders and not more than 4 may be Scoters) |
| (b)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | October 1 to January 15 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (c)all Geese, combined | 20 | (i)September 1 to September 15 | 5 (plus an additional 5 Canada Geese or Cackling Geese in any combination) |  |  |
| (ii)October 1 to December 31 | (A)5, from October 1 to November 14(B)3, from November 15 to December 31 |  |  |  |  |
| (d)Woodcock | 16 | The last Monday of September to the second Saturday of December | 8 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | October 1 to December 31 | 10 |  |  |

### Nova Scotia

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Zone No. 1 | (a)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters, combined | 10 (not more than 4 may be Eiders and not more than 8 may be Scoters) | (i)October 1 to November 1 (not an open season for Eiders) | 5 (not more than 4 may be Scoters) |
| (ii)November 2 to December 31 | 5 (not more than 2 may be Eiders, of which not more than 1 may be female, and not more than 4 may be Scoters) |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)January 1 to January 15 (not an open season for Eiders) | 5 (not more than 4 may be Scoters) |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | October 1 to January 15 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (c)all Geese, combined | 20 | (i)September 1 to September 15 | 5 (plus an additional 5 Canada Geese or Cackling Geese in any combination) |  |  |
| (ii)October 1 to December 31 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (d)Woodcock | 16 | October 1 to November 30 | 8 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | October 1 to November 30 | 10 |  |  |
| 2 | Zone No. 2 | (a)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters, combined | 10 (not more than 4 may be Eiders and not more than 8 may be Scoters) | (i)October 8 to November 1 (not an open season for Eiders) | 5 (not more than 4 may be Scoters) |
| (ii)November 2 to December 31 | 5 (not more than 2 may be Eiders, of which not more than 1 may be female, and not more than 4 may be Scoters) |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)January 1 to January 22 (not an open season for Eiders) | 5 (not more than 4 may be Scoters) |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | October 8 to January 22 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (c)all Geese, combined | 20 | (i)September 1 to September 15 | 5 (plus an additional 5 Canada Geese or Cackling Geese in any combination) |  |  |
| (ii)October 16 to January 15 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (d)Woodcock | 16 | October 1 to November 30 | 8 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | October 1 to November 30 | 10 |  |  |

### New Brunswick

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Zone No. 1 | (a)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters, combined | 12 (not more than 4 may be Eiders and not more than 8 may be Scoters) | (i)October 15 to November 1 (not an open season for Eiders) | 6 (not more than 4 may be Scoters) |
| (ii)November 2 to December 31 | 6 (not more than 2 may be Eiders, of which not more than 1 may be female, and not more than 4 may be Scoters) |  |  |  |  |
| (ii.1)January 1 to January 5 (not an open season for Eiders) | 6 (not more than 4 may be Scoters) |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)February 1 to February 24 (not an open season for Eiders) | 6 (not more than 4 may be Scoters) |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | October 15 to January 29 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (c)all Geese, combined | 20 | (i)September 1 to September 15 | 5 (plus an additional 5 Canada Geese or Cackling Geese in any combination) |  |  |
| (ii)October 15 to January 14 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (d)Woodcock | 16 | September 15 to November 30 | 8 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | October 15 to January 14 | 10 |  |  |
| 2 | Zone No. 2 | (a)Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters, combined | 12 (not more than 4 may be Eiders and not more than 8 may be Scoters) | (i)October 1 to November 1 (not an open season for Eiders) | 6 (not more than 4 may be Scoters) |
| (ii)November 2 to December 31 | 6 (not more than 2 may be Eiders, of which not more than 1 may be female, and not more than 4 may be Scoters) |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)January 1 to January 15 (not an open season for Eiders) | 6 (not more than 4 may be Scoters) |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks, Common and Red-breasted Mergansers, Long-tailed Ducks, Eiders and Scoters), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | October 1 to January 15 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |  |  |
| (c)all Geese, combined | 20 | (i)September 1 to September 15 | 5 (plus an additional 5 Canada Geese or Cackling Geese in any combination) |  |  |
| (ii)October 1 to December 31 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (d)Woodcock | 16 | September 15 to November 30 | 8 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 20 | October 1 to December 31 | 10 |  |  |

### Quebec

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | District A | (a)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 2 may be Blue-winged Teal) | September 1 to December 16 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | No limit | (i)September 1 to September 25 | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)September 26 to October 31 | 3 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)November 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Geese (other than Snow Geese, Canada and Cackling Geese), combined | 15 | September 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots and Gallinules, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (e)Woodcock | 24 | September 1 to December 16 | (i)8 for residents of Canada(ii)4 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 30 | September 1 to December 16 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Mourning Doves | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| 2 | District B | (a)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 2 may be Blue-winged Teal) | (i)the first Saturday after September 11 to September 30, for Ducks other than Eiders and Long-tailed Ducks | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |
| (ii)October 1 to October 24 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)October 25 to November 14 (not an open season for Eiders and Long-tailed Ducks in locations on the North Shore that are west of the Natashquan River) | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |  |  |  |  |
| (iv)November 15 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |  |  |  |  |
| (v)the first Sunday after December 26 to January 14, only for Eiders and Long-tailed Ducks | 6 |  |  |  |  |
| (vi)January 15 to February 5, only for Eiders and Long-tailed Ducks in locations on the North Shore that are west of the Natashquan River | 6 |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | No limit | (i)the first Saturday after September 11 to September 25 | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)September 26 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Geese (other than Snow Geese, Canada Geese and Cackling Geese), combined | 15 | The first Saturday after September 11 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots and Gallinules, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (e)Woodcock | 24 | The first Saturday after August 31 to the first Saturday after December 14 | (i)8 for residents of Canada(ii)4 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 30 | The first Saturday after September 11 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Mourning Doves | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| 3 | Districts C and D | (a)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 2 may be Blue-winged Teal) | The first Saturday after September 11 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | No limit | (i)September 1 to the first Friday after September 10 (only on farmland) | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)the first Saturday after September 11 to September 25 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)September 26 to October 31 | (A)3 (in District C)(B)2 (in District D) |  |  |  |  |
| (iv)November 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Geese (other than Snow Geese, Canada Geese and Cackling Geese), combined | 15 | The first Saturday after September 11 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots and Gallinules, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (e)Woodcock | 24 | The first Saturday after August 31 to the first Saturday after December 14 | (i)8 for residents of Canada(ii)4 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 30 | The first Saturday after September 11 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Mourning Doves | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| 4 | District E | (a)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 2 may be Blue-winged Teal) | (i)The first Saturday after September 11 to October 20 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |
| (ii)October 21 to the first Saturday after December 25 (not an open season for Barrow’s Goldeneye or Common Goldeneye in locations that are within Provincial Hunting Zone 21 or within 100 m of that Zone) | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | No limit | (i)September 1 to the first Friday after September 10 (only on farmland) | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)the first Saturday after September 11 to September 25 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)September 26 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Geese (other than Snow Geese, Canada Geese and Cackling Geese), combined | 15 | The first Saturday after September 11 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots and Gallinules, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (e)Woodcock | 24 | The first Saturday after August 31 to the first Saturday after December 14 | (i)8 for residents of Canada(ii)4 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 30 | The first Saturday after September 11 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Mourning Doves | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| 5 | District F | (a)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 2 may be Blue-winged Teal) | (i)the first Saturday after September 18 to October 20 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |
| (ii)October 21 to the first Saturday after January 1 (not an open season for Barrow’s Goldeneye or Common Goldeneye in locations between Pointe Jureux (Saint-Irénée) and Gros Cap à l’Aigle (Saint-Fidèle) from routes 362 and 138 and extending 2 km within Provincial Hunting Zone 21) | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | No limit | (i)September 6 to the first Friday after September 17 (only on farmland) | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)the first Saturday after September 18 to September 25 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)September 26 to October 31 | (A)3 (in locations west of Highway 15 and its northerly extension along Route 117)(B)2 (in locations east of Highway 15 and its northerly extension along Route 117) |  |  |  |  |
| (iv)November 1 to December 21 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Geese (other than Snow Geese, Canada Geese and Cackling Geese), combined | 15 | The first Saturday after September 18 to the first Saturday after January 1 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots and Gallinules, combined | 12 | The first Saturday after September 18 to the first Saturday after January 1 | 4 |  |  |
| (e)Woodcock | 24 | The first Saturday after August 31 to the first Saturday after December 14 | (i)8 for residents of Canada(ii)4 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 30 | The first Saturday after September 18 to the first Saturday after January 1 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Mourning Doves | 24 | The first Saturday after September 14 to the first Saturday after December 28 | 8 |  |  |
| 6 | District G | (a)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 2 may be Blue-winged Teal) | (i)the last Saturday in September to October 31 (not an open season for Eiders or Long-tailed Ducks) | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |
| (ii)November 1 to December 26 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal) |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)December 27 to February 14 (only for Eiders and Long-tailed Ducks) | 6 |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | No limit | The last Saturday of September to December 26 | 5 |  |  |
| (c)Geese (other than Snow Geese, Canada Geese and Cackling Geese), combined | 15 | The last Saturday of September to December 26 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots and Gallinules, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (e)Woodcock | 24 | The last Saturday of September to December 26 | (i)8 for residents of Canada(ii)4 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 30 | The last Saturday of September to December 26 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Mourning Doves | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 | Column 6 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit | Additional Hunting Method or Equipment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | District A | Snow Geese | No limit | (a)September 1 to December 16 | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used. While hunting that species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)May 1 to June 30 | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |
| 2 | District B | Snow Geese | No limit | The first Saturday after September 11 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used. While hunting that species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| 3 | Districts C and D | Snow Geese | No limit | (a)September 1 to the Friday after September 10 (only on farmland) | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used. While hunting that species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)the first Saturday after September 11 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used. While hunting that species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (c)March 1 to May 31 (only on farmland) | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |
| 4 | District E | Snow Geese | No limit | (a)September 1 to the first Friday after September 10 (only on farmland) | 20 | (i)electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used. While hunting that species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted(ii)hunting with bait that is crops that are cut and left on the ground in the fall is permitted if the Minister has given consent in writing in accordance with paragraph 62(1)(c) of these Regulations |
| (b)The first Saturday after September 11 to the first Saturday after December 25 | 20 | (i)electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used. While hunting that species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is open season may be hunted(ii)hunting with bait that is crops that are cut and left on the ground in the fall is permitted if the Minister has given consent in writing under paragraph 62(1)(c) of these Regulations |  |  |  |  |
| (c)March 1 to May 31 (only on farmland) | 20 | (i)electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used(ii)hunting with bait in the spring is permitted if the Minister has given consent in writing under subsection 61(1) of these Regulations |  |  |  |  |
| 5 | District F | Snow Geese | No limit | (a)September 6 to the first Friday after September 17 (only on farmland) | 20 | (i)electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used. While hunting that species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted(ii)hunting with bait that is crops that are cut and left on the ground in the fall is permitted if the Minister has given consent in writing under paragraph 62(1)(c) of these Regulations |
| (b)the first Saturday after September 18 to the first Saturday after January 1 | 20 | (i)electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used. While hunting that species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is open season may be hunted(ii)hunting with bait that is crops that are cut and left on the ground in the fall is permitted if the Minister has given consent in writing under paragraph 62(1)(c) of these Regulations |  |  |  |  |
| (c)March 1 to May 31, only on farmland that is not within the following locations:(i)south of the St. Lawrence River and north of the road right-of-way of Route 132 between the western limit of the municipality of Montmagny and the eastern limit of the municipality of Cap-Saint-Ignace, other than in lots 4,598,472, 2,611,981 and 2,611,982 of the cadastre of Quebec (in the municipality of Montmagny),(ii)north of the St. Lawrence River and south of a line that is 1000 m north of Highway 40 between Montée Saint-Laurent and the Maskinongé River, or(iii)south of the St. Lawrence River and north of the railroad right-of-way located near Route 132 between the Nicolet River in the east and Lacerte Road in the west | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used.Hunting with bait in the spring is permitted if the Minister has given consent in writing under subsection 61(1) of these Regulations |  |  |  |  |
| 6 | District G | Snow Geese | No limit | The last Saturday of September to December 26 | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese may be used. While hunting that species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |

### Ontario

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Hudson-James Bay District | (a)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | September 1 to December 16 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | No limit | September 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |
| (c)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | September 1 to December 16 | 50 |  |  |
| (d)Geese (other than Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese), combined | 15 | September 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Rails (other than Yellow Rails and King Rails), Coots and Gallinules, combined | 30 | September 1 to December 16 | 10 (not more than 8 may be Coots and not more than 4 may be Gallinules) |  |  |
| (f)Woodcock | 24 | September 15 to December 16 | 8 |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | September 1 to December 16 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| 2 | Northern District | (a)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | September 10 to December 25 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | No limit | (i)September 1 to September 9 | (A)10 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 8, 10, 13, 36, 37, 39, 41 and 45)(B)5 (in other Provincial Wildlife Management Units) |  |  |
| (ii)September 10 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | September 1 to December 16 | 20 |  |  |
| (d)Geese (other than Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese), combined | 15 | September 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Rails (other than Yellow Rails and King Rails), Coots and Gallinules, combined | 30 | September 10 to December 25 | 10 (not more than 8 may be Coots and not more than 4 may be Gallinules) |  |  |
| (f)Woodcock | 24 | September 15 to December 16 | 8 |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | September 10 to December 25 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| 3 | Central District | (a)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | The third Saturday in September to the first Sunday after December 29 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | No limit | (i)September 1 to the Friday before the third Saturday in September | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)the third Saturday in September to December 16 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | September 1 to December 16 | 20 |  |  |
| (d)Geese (other than Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese), combined | 15 | September 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Rails (other than Yellow Rails and King Rails), Coots and Gallinules, combined | 30 | The third Saturday in September to the first Sunday after December 29 | 10 (not more than 8 may be Coots and not more than 4 may be Gallinules) |  |  |
| (f)Woodcock | 24 | September 15 to December 16 | 8 |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | The third Saturday in September to the first Sunday after December 29 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves | 45 | September 1 to November 30 | 15 |  |  |
| 4 | Southern District | (a)Ducks (other than Harlequin Ducks), combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye) | The fourth Saturday in September to the first Sunday after January 5 | (i)6 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 60 to 87E and not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye)(ii)6 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 88 to 95 and not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 3 may be American Black Ducks) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | No limit | (i)the Thursday after the first Monday of September to the second Sunday after that Monday (excluding Sundays in municipalities where hunting with guns on Sunday is not permitted by provincial regulations) | (A)10 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 60 to 81, 83, 86 to 92 and 95)(B)8 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 82, 84, 85, 93 and 94) |  |  |
| (ii)the fourth Saturday in September to the first Wednesday after December 25 (excluding Sundays in municipalities where hunting with guns on Sundays is not permitted by provincial regulations) | (A)5 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 60 to 64, 66 to 81, 83, 86 to 92 and 95 from the fourth Saturday in September to the first Friday after October 25)(B)3 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 65, 82, 84, 85 and 93 from the fourth Saturday in September to the first Friday after October 25)(C)5 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 60 to 93 and 95 from the first Saturday after October 26 to the first Wednesday after December 25)(D)3 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Unit 94) |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)the first Thursday after December 26 to the first Saturday after January 4, excluding Sundays, in municipalities where hunting with guns on Sundays is not permitted by provincial regulations | (A)5 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 60 to 93 and 95)(B)3 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Unit 94) |  |  |  |  |
| (iv)the fourth Saturday in February to the following Saturday, excluding Sundays, in municipalities where hunting with guns on Sunday is not permitted by provincial regulations (not an open season in Provincial Wildlife Management Unit 94) | (A)10 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 60 to 81, 83, 86 to 92 and 95)(B)8 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 82, 84, 85 and 93) |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (i)the fourth Saturday in September to the first Sunday after January 5 (excluding Sundays in municipalities where hunting with guns on Sundays is not permitted by provincial regulations) | 20 |  |  |
| (ii)the fourth Saturday in February to the following Saturday, excluding Sundays, in municipalities where hunting with guns on Sunday is not permitted by provincial regulations | 20 |  |  |  |  |
| (d)Geese (other than Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese), combined | 15 | The fourth Saturday in September to the first Sunday after January 5 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Rails (other than Yellow Rails and King Rails), Coots and Gallinules, combined | 30 | The fourth Saturday in September to the first Sunday after January 5 | 10 (not more than 8 may be Coots and not more than 4 may be Gallinules) |  |  |
| (f)Woodcock | 24 | (i)September 15 to September 24 (only in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 60 to 67 and 69B) | 8 |  |  |
| (ii)September 25 to December 20 (only in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 60 to 95) | 8 |  |  |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | The fourth Saturday in September to the first Sunday after January 5 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves | 45 | September 1 to November 30 | 15 |  |  |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 | Column 6 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit | Additional Hunting Method or Equipment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Southern District (only Provincial Wildlife Management Unit 65, 66, 67 and 69B) | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)the fourth Saturday in September to the first Sunday after January 5 | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is open season may be hunted |
| (b)the fourth Saturday in February to the following Saturday, excluding Sundays, in municipalities where hunting with guns on Sundays is not permitted by provincial regulations | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (c)March 1 to May 31 | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |

### Manitoba

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Game Bird Hunting Zone No. 1 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 | September 1 to October 31 | 8 |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | 24 | September 1 to October 31 | 8 |  |  |
| (c)Sandhill Cranes | 15 | September 1 to November 30 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots | 24 | September 1 to October 31 | 8 |  |  |
| (e)Woodcock | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 30 | September 1 to October 31 | 10 |  |  |
| 2 | Game Bird Hunting Zone No. 2 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 | (i)September 1 to September 7, for residents of Canada only | 8 |
| (ii)September 8 to November 30 | 8 |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | 24 for residents of Canada15 for non-residents of Canada | (i)September 1 to September 7, for residents of Canada only | 8 |  |  |
| (ii)September 8 to November 30 | (A)8 for residents of Canada(B)5 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Sandhill Cranes | 15 | September 1 to November 30 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots | 24 | (i)September 1 to September 7, for residents of Canada only | 8 |  |  |
| (ii)September 8 to November 30 | 8 |  |  |  |  |
| (e)Woodcock | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 30 | (i)September 1 to September 7, for residents of Canada only | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)September 8 to November 30 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| 3 | Game Bird Hunting Zone No. 3 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 | (i)September 1 to September 23, for residents of Canada only | 8 |
| (ii)September 24 to December 6 | 8 |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | 24 for residents of Canada15 for non-residents of Canada | (i)September 1 to September 23, for residents of Canada only | 8 |  |  |
| (ii)September 24 to December 6 | (A)8 for residents of Canada(B)5 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Sandhill Cranes | 15 | September 1 to December 6 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots | 24 | (i)September 1 to September 23, for residents of Canada only | 8 |  |  |
| (ii)September 24 to December 6 | 8 |  |  |  |  |
| (e)Woodcock | 24 for residents of Canada12 for non-residents of Canada | September 8 to December 6 | (i)8 for residents of Canada(ii)4 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 30 | (i)September 1 to September 23, for residents of Canada only | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)September 24 to December 6 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| 4 | Game Bird Hunting Zone No. 4 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 for residents of Canada24 for non-residents of Canada (not more than 12 may be Redheads or Canvasbacks in any combination) | (i)September 1 to September 23, for residents of Canada only | 8 |
| (ii)September 24 to December 6 | (A)8 for residents of Canada(B)8 for non-residents of Canada (not more than 4 may be Redheads or Canvasbacks in any combination) |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | 24 for residents of Canada15 for non-residents of Canada | (i)September 1 to September 23, for residents of Canada only | 8 (plus an additional 4 in Provincial Game Hunting Area 38) |  |  |
| (ii)September 24 to December 6 | (A)8 for residents of Canada(B)5 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Sandhill Cranes | 15 | September 1 to December 6 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots | 24 | (i)September 1 to September 23, for residents of Canada only | 8 |  |  |
| (ii)September 24 to December 6 | 8 |  |  |  |  |
| (e)Woodcock | 24 for residents of Canada12 for non-residents of Canada | September 8 to December 6 | (i)8 for residents of Canada(ii)4 for non-residents of Canada |  |  |
| (f)Snipe | 30 | (i)September 1 to September 23, for residents of Canada only | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)September 24 to December 6 | 10 |  |  |  |  |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 | Column 6 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit | Additional Hunting Method or Equipment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Game Bird Hunting Zone No. 1 | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)August 15 to August 31 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. |
| (b)September 1 to October 31 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (c)April 1 to June 15 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |
| 2 | Game Bird Hunting Zone No. 2 | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)September 1 to September 7, for residents of Canada only | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)September 8 to November 30 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (c)March 15 to May 31 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |
| 3 | Game Bird Hunting Zone No. 3 | (a)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (i)September 1 to September 16, for residents of Canada only | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (ii)September 17 to December 6 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)March 15 to May 31 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. From March 15 to April 10, electronic bird calls of Canada Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese | 24 | March 1 to April 10 | 8 | Electronic bird calls of Canada Geese may be used. From March 15 to April 10, electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting Canada Geese with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |
| 4 | Game Bird Hunting Zone No. 4 | (a)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (i)September 1 to September 16, for residents of Canada only | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (ii)September 17 to December 6 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)March 15 to May 31 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. From March 15 to April 10, electronic bird calls of Canada Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese | 24 | March 1 to April 10 | 8 | Electronic bird calls of Canada Geese may be used. From March 15 to April 10, electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting Canada Geese with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |

### Saskatchewan

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | District No. 1 (North) and District No. 2 (South) | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 | September 1 to December 16 | 8 |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese and White-fronted Geese, combined | 24 | September 1 to December 16 | 8 |  |  |
| (c)Sandhill Cranes | 15 | September 1 to December 16 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots | 30 | September 1 to December 16 | 10 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 30 | September 1 to December 16 | 10 |  |  |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 | Column 6 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit | Additional Hunting Method or Equipment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | District No. 1 (North) and District No. 2 (South) | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)September 1 to December 16 | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)March 15 to June 15 | 20 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |

### Alberta

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Zone No. 1 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 for residents of Canada24 for non-residents of Canada (not more than a total of 6 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye or Common Goldeneye in any combination) | September 1 to December 16 | (i)8 for residents of Canada(ii)8 for non-residents of Canada (not more than a total of 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye or Common Goldeneye in any combination) |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese and White-fronted Geese, combined | 24 | September 1 to December 16 | 8 |  |  |
| (c)Sandhill Crane | 15 | September 1 to December 16 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 200, 202 to 204, 206, 208, 220, 222, 226, 228, 230, 232, 234, 236, 238, 240, 242, 244, 248, 250, 252, 254, 256, 258, 260 and 500) | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots | 24 | September 1 to December 16 | 8 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 24 | September 1 to December 16 | 8 |  |  |
| 2 | Zone No. 2 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 for residents of Canada24 for non-residents of Canada (not more than a total of 6 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye or Common Goldeneye in any combination) | September 8 to December 23 | (i)8 for residents of Canada(ii)8 for non-residents of Canada (not more than a total of 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye or Common Goldeneye in any combination) |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese and White-fronted Geese, combined | 24 | September 8 to December 23 | 8 |  |  |
| (c)Sandhill Crane | 15 | September 8 to December 23 (in Provincial Wildlife Management Units 102, 104, 106, 112, 116, 118, 119, 124, 128, 130, 132, 134, 136, 138, 140, 142, 144, 148, 150 to 152, 156, 158, 160, 162 to 164, 166 and 210) | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Coots | 24 | September 8 to December 23 | 8 |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 24 | September 8 to December 23 | 8 |  |  |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 | Column 6 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit | Additional Hunting Method or Equipment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Zone No. 1 | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)September 1 to December 16 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)March 15 to June 15 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |
| 2 | Zone No. 2 | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)September 8 to December 23 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)March 15 to June 15 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |

### British Columbia

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | District No. 1 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 (not more than 12 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 12 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 6 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 6 may be Harlequin Ducks) | The first Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after January 19 | 8 (not more than 4 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 4 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 2 may be Harlequin Ducks) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | 30 | (i)the first Saturday in September to the Tuesday after the second Saturday in September (only in Provincial Management Units 1-1, 1-2 and 1-4 to 1-7) | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)the Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after November 17 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)the first Monday after November 18 to the Friday before the third Saturday in December (only in Provincial Management Units 1-3 and 1-8 to 1-15) | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iv)the third Saturday in December to the first Sunday after January 5 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (v)the first Monday after January 6 to the first Sunday after January 19 (only in Provincial Management Units 1-3 and 1-8 to 1-15) | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (vi)in a year that is not a leap year, February 10 to March 10 (only in Provincial Management Units 1-1, 1-2 and 1-4 to 1-7) | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (vii)in a leap year, February 11 to March 10 (only in Provincial Management Units 1-1, 1-2 and 1-4 to 1-7) | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)White-fronted Geese | 15 | The Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after January 19 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | 15 | The Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after January 19 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Brant | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (f)Coots | 30 | The Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after January 19 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | The Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after January 19 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves and Eurasian Collared Doves, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (i)Band-Tailed Pigeons | 15 | September 15 to September 30 | 5 |  |  |
| 2 | District No. 2 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 (not more than 12 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 12 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 6 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 6 may be Harlequin Ducks) | The Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after January 19 | 8 (not more than 4 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 4 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 2 may be Harlequin Ducks) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | 30 | (i)the first Saturday in September to the Tuesday after the second Saturday in September | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)the Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after November 17 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)the third Saturday in December to the first Sunday after January 5 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iv)in a year that is not a leap year, February 10 to March 10 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (v)in a leap year, February 11 to March 10 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)White-fronted Geese | 15 | The Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after January 19 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | 30 (not more than 15 may be Ross’s Geese). An additional 15 Snow Geese may be possessed in Provincial Management Units 2-4 and 2-5 | (i)the Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Tuesday after December 31 | 10 (not more than 5 may be Ross’s Geese). An additional 5 Snow Geese may be killed or taken in Provincial Management Units 2-4 and 2-5 |  |  |
| (ii)in a year that is not a leap year, February 20 to March 10 | 10 (not more than 5 may be Ross’s Geese). An additional 5 Snow Geese may be killed or taken in Provincial Management Units 2-4 and 2-5 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)in a leap year, February 21 to March 10 | 10 (not more than 5 may be Ross’s Geese). An additional 5 Snow Geese may be killed or taken in Provincial Management Units 2-4 and 2-5 |  |  |  |  |
| (e)Brant | 9 | March 1 to March 10 (only in Provincial Management Unit 2-4) | 3 |  |  |
| (f)Coots | 30 | The Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after January 19 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | The Saturday after the first Monday in October to the first Sunday after January 19 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves and Eurasian Collared-Doves, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (i)Band-tailed Pigeons | 15 | September 15 to September 30 | 5 |  |  |
| 3 | District No. 3 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 (not more than 12 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 12 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 6 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 6 may be Harlequin Ducks) | September 8 to December 23 | 8 (not more than 4 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 4 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 2 may be Harlequin Ducks) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | 30 | (i)September 8 to September 20 | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)October 1 to December 23 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)March 1 to March 10 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)White-fronted Geese | 15 | September 8 to December 23 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | 15 | September 8 to December 23 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Brant | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (f)Coots | 30 | September 8 to December 23 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | September 8 to December 23 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves and Eurasian Collared-Doves, combined | 15 | September 1 to September 30 | 5 |  |  |
| (i)Band-tailed Pigeons | 15 | September 15 to September 30 (only in Provincial Management Units 3-13 to 3-17) | 5 |  |  |
| 4 | District No. 4 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 (not more than 12 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 12 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 6 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 6 may be Harlequin Ducks) | September 8 to December 23 | 8 (not more than 4 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 4 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 2 may be Harlequin Ducks) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | 30 | September 8 to December 23 | 10 |  |  |
| (c)White-fronted Geese | 15 | September 8 to December 23 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | 15 | September 8 to December 23 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Brant | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (f)Coots | 30 | September 8 to December 23 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | September 8 to December 23 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves and Eurasian Collared-Doves, combined | 15 | September 1 to September 30 | 5 |  |  |
| (i)Band-tailed Pigeons | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| 5 | District No. 5 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 (not more than 12 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 12 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 6 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 6 may be Harlequin Ducks) | September 13 to December 25 | 8 (not more than 4 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 4 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 2 may be Harlequin Ducks) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | 30 | September 13 to December 25 | 10 |  |  |
| (c)White-fronted Geese | 15 | September 13 to December 25 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | 15 | September 13 to December 25 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Brant | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (f)Coots | 30 | September 13 to December 25 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | September 13 to December 25 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves and Eurasian Collared-Doves, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (i)Band-tailed Pigeons | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| 6 | District No. 6 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 (not more than 12 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 12 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 6 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 6 may be Harlequin Ducks) | (i)September 1 to September 30 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 to 6-10 and 6-15 to 6-30) | 8 (not more than 4 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 4 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 2 may be Harlequin Ducks) |
| (ii)October 1 to November 30 | 8 (not more than 4 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 4 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 2 may be Harlequin Ducks) |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)December 1 to January 15 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-3 and 6-11 to 6-14) | 8 (not more than 4 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 4 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 2 may be Harlequin Ducks) |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | 30 | (i)September 1 to September 30 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 to 6-10 and 6-15 to 6-30) | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)October 1 to November 30 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)December 1 to January 15 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-3 and 6-11 to 6-14) | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)White-fronted Geese | 15 | (i)September 1 to September 30 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 to 6-10 and 6-15 to 6-30) | 5 |  |  |
| (ii)October 1 to November 30 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)December 1 to January 15 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-3 and 6-11 to 6-14) | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (d)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | 15 | (i)September 1 to September 30 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 to 6-10 and 6-15 to 6-30) | 5 |  |  |
| (ii)October 1 to November 30 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)December 1 to January 15 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-3 and 6-11 to 6-14) | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (e)Brant | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (f)Coots | 30 | (i)September 1 to September 30 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 to 6-10 and 6-15 to 6-30) | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)October 1 to November 30 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)December 1 to January 15 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-3 and 6-11 to 6-14) | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | (i)September 1 to September 30 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 to 6-10 and 6-15 to 6-30) | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)October 1 to November 30 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)December 1 to January 15 (only in Provincial Management Units 6-3 and 6-11 to 6-14) | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves and Eurasian Collared-Doves, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (i)Band-tailed Pigeons | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| 7 | District No. 7 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 (not more than 12 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 12 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 6 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 6 may be Harlequin Ducks) | September 1 to November 30 | 8 (not more than 4 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 4 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 2 may be Harlequin Ducks) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | 30 | September 1 to November 30 | 10 |  |  |
| (c)White-fronted Geese | 15 | September 1 to November 30 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | 15 | September 1 to November 30 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Brant | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (f)Coots | 30 | September 1 to November 30 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | September 1 to November 30 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves and Eurasian Collared-Doves, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (i)Band-tailed Pigeons | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| 8 | District No. 8 | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 (not more than 12 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 12 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 6 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 6 may be Harlequin Ducks) | September 23 to January 7 | 8 (not more than 4 may be Northern Pintails, not more than 4 may be Canvasbacks, not more than 2 may be Barrow’s Goldeneyes or Common Goldeneyes, in any combination, and not more than 2 may be Harlequin Ducks) |
| (b)Canada Geese and Cackling Geese, combined | 30 | (i)September 20 to November 28 | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)December 20 to January 5 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iii)in a year that is not a leap year, February 21 to March 10 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (iv)in a leap year, February 22 to March 10 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)White-fronted Geese | 15 | September 23 to January 7 | 5 |  |  |
| (d)Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | 15 | September 23 to January 7 | 5 |  |  |
| (e)Brant | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (f)Coots | 30 | September 23 to January 7 | 10 |  |  |
| (g)Snipe | 30 | September 23 to January 7 | 10 |  |  |
| (h)Mourning Doves and Eurasian Collared-Doves, combined | 15 | September 1 to September 30 | 5 |  |  |
| (i)Band-tailed Pigeons | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |

### Northwest Territories

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Throughout the Northwest Territories | (a)all Ducks, combined | No limit for residents of Canada16 for non-residents of Canada | September 1 to December 10 | (i)25 for residents of Canada(ii)8 for non-residents of Canada |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | No limit for residents of Canada10 for non-residents of Canada (not more than 4 may be White-fronted Geese) | September 1 to December 10 | (i)15 for residents of Canada(ii)5 for non-residents of Canada (not more than 2 may be White-fronted Geese) |  |  |
| (c)Coots | No limit | September 1 to December 10 | 25 |  |  |
| (d)Snipe | No limit for residents of Canada20 for non-residents of Canada | September 1 to December 10 | 10 |  |  |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 | Column 6 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit | Additional Hunting Method or Equipment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Banks Island and the portions of Victoria Island and of the Queen Elizabeth Islands that are in the Northwest Territories | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)September 1 to December 10 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)May 1 to June 30 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |
| 2 | Throughout the Northwest Territories except Banks Island, Victoria Island and the Queen Elizabeth Islands | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)September 1 to December 10 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)May 1 to May 28 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |

### Yukon

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Northern Yukon | (a)all Ducks, combined | No limit | (i)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 25 |
| (ii)September 1 to October 31 | 25 |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | No limit | (i)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 15 |  |  |
| (ii)September 1 to October 31 | 15 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Sandhill Cranes | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (d)Rails and Coots, combined | No limit | (i)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 25 |  |  |
| (ii)September 1 to October 31 | 25 |  |  |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | No limit | (i)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)September 1 to October 31 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| 2 | Central Yukon | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 | (i)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 8 |
| (ii)September 1 to October 31 | 8 |  |  |  |  |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | 15 | (i)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 5 |  |  |
| (ii)September 1 to October 31 | 5 |  |  |  |  |
| (c)Sandhill Cranes | 4 | (i)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 2 |  |  |
| (ii)September 1 to October 31 | 2 |  |  |  |  |
| (d)Rails and Coots, combined | No limit | (i)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 25 |  |  |
| (ii)September 1 to October 31 | 25 |  |  |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 30 | (i)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 10 |  |  |
| (ii)September 1 to October 31 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| 3 | Southern Yukon | (a)all Ducks, combined | 24 | September 1 to October 31 | 8 |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | 15 | September 1 to October 31 | 5 |  |  |
| (c)Sandhill Cranes | 4 | September 1 to October 31 | 2 |  |  |
| (d)Rails and Coots, combined | N/A | No open season | N/A |  |  |
| (e)Snipe | 30 | September 1 to October 31 | 10 |  |  |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 | Column 6 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit | Additional Hunting Method or Equipment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Northern Yukon | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)September 1 to October 31 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (c)May 1 to May 28 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |
| 2 | Central Yukon | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)August 15 to August 31, for residents of Yukon only | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)September 1 to October 31 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (c)May 1 to May 28 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |
| 3 | Southern Yukon | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | September 1 to October 31 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |
| (b)May 1 to May 28 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |

### Nunavut

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Throughout Nunavut except the portion of the islands and waters of James Bay south of latitude 55°N | (a)all Ducks, combined | No limit for residents of Canada24 for non-residents of Canada | September 1 to December 10 | (i)25 for residents of Canada(ii)8 for non-residents of Canada |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | No limit for residents of Canada15 for non-residents of Canada (not more than 6 may be White-fronted Geese) | September 1 to December 10 | (i)15 for residents of Canada(ii)5 for non-residents of Canada (not more than 2 may be White-fronted Geese) |  |  |
| (c)Coots | No limit | September 1 to December 10 | 25 |  |  |
| (d)Snipe | No limit for residents of Canada30 for non-residents of Canada | September 1 to December 10 | 10 |  |  |
| 2 | The portion of the islands and waters of James Bay south of latitude 55°N and west of longitude 80°15’W | (a)all Ducks, combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 6 may be American Black Ducks) | September 1 to December 10 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 2 may be American Black Ducks) |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | No limit for residents of Canada15 White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined, for non-residents of Canada (not more than 6 may be White-fronted Geese) and no limit in respect of Canada Geese and Cackling Geese | September 1 to December 10 | (i)15 for residents of Canada (not more than a total of 5 may be Canada Geese or Cackling Geese in any combination)(ii)5 for non-residents of Canada (not more than a total of 2 may be White-Fronted Geese) |  |  |
| (c)Coots | No limit | September 1 to December 10 | 25 |  |  |
| (d)Snipe | No limit for residents of Canada30 for non-residents of Canada | September 1 to December 10 | 10 |  |  |
| 3 | The portion of the islands and waters of James Bay south of 55°N latitude and east of 80°15’W longitude | (a)all Ducks, combined | 18 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye and not more than 2 may be Blue-winged Teal) | September 1 to December 10 | 6 (not more than 1 may be Barrow’s Goldeneye, not more than 1 may be Blue-winged Teal and not more than 4 may be American Black Ducks) |
| (b)Canada Geese, Cackling Geese, White-fronted Geese and Brant, combined | 20 for residents of Canada20 for non-residents of Canada (not more than 6 may be White-fronted Geese) | September 1 to December 10 | (i)15 for residents of Canada(ii)5 for non-residents of Canada (not more than 2 may be White-fronted Geese) |  |  |
| (c)Coots | No limit | September 1 to December 10 | 25 |  |  |
| (d)Snipe | No limit for residents of Canada30 for non-residents of Canada | September 1 to December 10 | 10 |  |  |

|  | Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 | Column 4 | Column 5 | Column 6 |
| Item | Area | Species | Possession Limit | Open Season | Daily Bag Limit | Additional Hunting Method or Equipment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Throughout Nunavut | Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese, combined | No limit | (a)August 15 to August 31 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |
| (b)September 1 to December 10 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used. While hunting those species with those calls, any other species of migratory bird for which it is the open season may be hunted |  |  |  |  |
| (c)May 1 to June 30 | 50 | Electronic bird calls of Snow Geese and Ross’s Geese may be used |  |  |  |  |

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- SOR/2022-147, s. 2
- SOR/2022-147, s. 3
- SOR/2022-147, s. 4
- SOR/2022-147, s. 5
- SOR/2022-147, s. 6
- SOR/2022-147, s. 7
- SOR/2022-147, s. 8
- SOR/2022-147, s. 9
- SOR/2022-147, s. 10
- SOR/2022-147, s. 11(E)
- SOR/2022-147, s. 12
- SOR/2022-147, s. 13
- SOR/2022-147, s. 14
- SOR/2022-147, s. 15
- SOR/2022-147, s. 16
- SOR/2022-147, s. 17
- SOR/2022-147, s. 18
- SOR/2022-147, s. 19
- SOR/2022-147, s. 20
- SOR/2022-147, s. 21(E)
- SOR/2022-147, s. 22
- SOR/2022-147, s. 23
- SOR/2022-147, s. 24
- SOR/2022-147, s. 25
- SOR/2022-147, s. 26
- SOR/2024-129, s. 2
- SOR/2024-129, s. 3
- SOR/2024-129, s. 4
- SOR/2024-129, s. 5
- SOR/2024-129, s. 6
- SOR/2024-129, s. 7
- SOR/2024-129, s. 8
- SOR/2024-129, s. 9
- SOR/2024-129, s. 10
- SOR/2024-129, s. 11
- SOR/2024-129, s. 12
- SOR/2024-129, s. 13
- SOR/2024-129, s. 14
- SOR/2024-129, s. 15
- SOR/2024-129, s. 16
- SOR/2024-129, s. 17(F)
- SOR/2024-129, s. 18
- SOR/2024-129, s. 19
- SOR/2024-129, s. 20
- SOR/2024-129, s. 21
- SOR/2024-129, s. 22
- SOR/2024-129, s. 23
- SOR/2024-129, s. 24
- SOR/2024-129, s. 25
- SOR/2024-129, s. 26
- SOR/2024-129, s. 27(F)
- SOR/2024-129, s. 28(E)
- SOR/2024-129, s. 29
- SOR/2024-129, s. 30(E)
- SOR/2024-129, s. 31(E)
- SOR/2024-129, s. 32(E)
- SOR/2024-129, s. 33(E)
- SOR/2024-129, s. 34(E)
- SOR/2024-129, s. 35(E)
- SOR/2024-129, s. 36
- SOR/2024-197, s. 1(E)

</details>
