---
title: "Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement Act"
long_title: "An Act to provide for the membership of Canada in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank"
chapter: "A-12.8"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement Act

> An Act to provide for the membership of Canada in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank


### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement Act*.

### 2 Definitions

The following definitions apply in this Act.

**Agreement** means the Agreement respecting the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank set out in the schedule. (**accord**)

**Bank** means the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. (**Banque**)

### 3 Approval of Agreement

The Agreement is approved.

### 4 Acceptance of Agreement and implementation

The Governor in Council may authorize the acceptance of the Agreement on behalf of Canada and take any measure that is necessary in the opinion of the Governor in Council, including making appointments, orders and regulations, for carrying out the obligations or exercising the rights of Canada under the Agreement, and in particular for granting the privileges and immunities set out in the Agreement.

### 5 Amendment to schedule

The Governor in Council may, by order, amend the schedule to take into account amendments to the Agreement that are consistent with the purpose and functions of the Bank.

### 6 Depository

The Bank of Canada is the depository in Canada for the assets of the Bank.

### 7 Payments out of Consolidated Revenue Fund — Initial subscription

The Minister of Finance may make payments out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Bank in respect of Canada’s initial subscription of shares in an aggregate amount not more than US$ 375,000,000, or any greater amount that is specified in an appropriation Act.


## SCHEDULE  Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank

(Sections 2 and 5)
