---
title: "Canada Water Agency Act"
long_title: "An Act respecting the Canada Water Agency"
chapter: "C-11.001"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Canada Water Agency Act

> An Act respecting the Canada Water Agency


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Canada Water Agency Act*.

## Definitions

### 2 Definitions

The following definitions apply in this Act.

**Agency** means the Canada Water Agency established by section 3. (**Agence**)

**Minister** means the Minister of the Environment. (**ministre**)

**President** means the President of the Agency appointed under section 7. (**président**)

## Canada Water Agency

### 3 Establishment

The Canada Water Agency is established for the purpose of assisting the Minister in exercising or performing the Minister’s powers, duties and functions in relation to fresh water under any Act of Parliament, including the *Department of the Environment Act* and the *Canada Water Act*.

### 4 Head office

The head office of the Agency is to be at a place in Canada that is designated by the Governor in Council.

### 5 Minister to preside

The Minister presides over the Agency and has the management and direction of it.

### 6 Delegation to Agency

(1) The Minister may, subject to any terms and conditions that the Minister specifies, delegate to an officer or employee of the Agency any power, duty or function that the Minister is authorized to exercise or perform under any Act of Parliament in relation to fresh water.

**Restriction**

(2) However, the Minister is not authorized to delegate a power to make regulations or a power to delegate under subsection (1).

## President

### 7 Appointment

The President of the Agency is to be appointed by the Governor in Council to hold office during pleasure for a renewable term of up to five years.

### 8 Chief executive officer

The President is the chief executive officer of the Agency and has the rank and status of a deputy head of a department.

### 9 Remuneration

The President is to be paid the remuneration fixed by the Governor in Council.

## General Provisions

### 10 Officers and employees

The officers and employees necessary for the proper conduct of the work of the Agency are to be appointed in accordance with the *Public Service Employment Act*.

### 11 Other government services and facilities

(1) A department, board or agency of the Government of Canada may provide to the Agency services and facilities that are necessary for carrying out the Agency’s purpose.

**Use of services and facilities**

(2) In exercising its powers and performing its duties and functions, the Agency must, where appropriate, make use of those services and facilities.

### 12 Provision of services and facilities

The Agency may provide services and facilities to departments, boards and agencies of the Government of Canada.

### 13 Committees

(1) The Minister may establish advisory committees in relation to fresh water and provide for their membership, duties, functions and operation.

**Remuneration**

(2) The Minister may fix the remuneration that members of a committee are to be paid for the performance of their duties and functions.

**Reimbursement**

(3) The Minister may determine whether members of a committee are to be reimbursed for the travel, living and other expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and functions while absent from their ordinary place of residence. Any such reimbursement is to be paid in accordance with Treasury Board directives.

## Transitional Provisions

### 14 Definitions

The following definitions apply in sections 15 to 18.

**former agency** means the portion of the federal public administration, within the Department of the Environment, known as the Canada Water Agency. (**ancienne agence**)

**new agency** means the Canada Water Agency established by section 3. (**nouvelle agence**)

### 15 Position

(1) Nothing in this Act is to be construed as affecting the status of an employee who, immediately before the coming into force of this section, occupied a position in the former agency, except that the employee, on that coming into force, is to occupy that position in the new agency.

**Definition of **employee****

(2) In subsection (1), **employee** has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the *Public Service Employment Act*.

### 16 Appropriations

Any amount that is appropriated by an Act of Parliament, for the fiscal year in which this section comes into force, to defray the expenditures of the former agency and that is unexpended on the day on which this section comes into force is deemed to be an amount appropriated to defray the expenditures of the new agency.

### 17 Transfer of powers, duties and functions

Any power, duty or function that is exercisable by an officer or employee of the former agency under any Act, order, rule or regulation or under any contract, lease, licence or other document, is to be exercised by the appropriate officer or employee of the new agency.

### 18 Clarification

For greater certainty, the powers, duties and functions referred to in section 17 include those related to the administration, in whole or in part, of any contract, lease, licence or other document that relates to the activities, management or operation of the former agency.
