---
title: "Fort Nelson Indian Reserve Minerals Revenue Sharing Act"
long_title: "An Act to implement an agreement between Her Majesty in right of the Province of British Columbia and Her Majesty in right of Canada respecting the sharing of revenues from the exploitation of minerals in the Fort Nelson Indian Reserve"
chapter: "F-31.4"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Fort Nelson Indian Reserve Minerals Revenue Sharing Act

> An Act to implement an agreement between Her Majesty in right of the Province of British Columbia and Her Majesty in right of Canada respecting the sharing of revenues from the exploitation of minerals in the Fort Nelson Indian Reserve


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Fort Nelson Indian Reserve Minerals Revenue Sharing Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

In this Act,

**agreement** means the agreement and Schedules A, B and D thereto set out in the schedule to this Act and includes Schedule C thereto, being a map not set out in the schedule to this Act but tabled in the House of Commons by the Minister on May 29, 1980 and recorded as document number 321-7/6; (**accord**)

**Minister** means the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. (**Ministre**)

## Agreement

### 3 Agreement approved

The agreement is approved and declared to have the force of law and shall be deemed to have come into force on January 1, 1977.

### 4 Inconsistency or conflict

Where there is any inconsistency or conflict between this Act or the agreement and any other Act of Parliament, this Act and the agreement prevail to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.

### 5 Regulations

The Minister may make such regulations as are necessary for the purpose of carrying out the agreement.

## Amendments

### 6 Amendment given effect

The Governor in Council may, by order, consent to and give effect to any amendment to the agreement that is made in accordance with the agreement.

### 7 Tabling order

An order under section 6, together with the amendment to which the order relates, shall be laid before Parliament not later than the fifteenth sitting day of either House of Parliament after it is issued.

## Commencement

### [^]8 Coming into force

This Act shall come into force on a day to be fixed by proclamation.

### 9 Application

This Act applies to the Fort Nelson Indian Band and to no other Indian Band.


## SCHEDULE
