---
title: "Income Tax Conventions Implementation Act, 1998"
long_title: "An Act to implement an agreement between Canada and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, an agreement between Canada and the Republic of Croatia and a convention between Canada and the Republic of Chile, for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income"
chapter: "I-3.53"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Income Tax Conventions Implementation Act, 1998

> An Act to implement an agreement between Canada and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, an agreement between Canada and the Republic of Croatia and a convention between Canada and the Republic of Chile, for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Income Tax Conventions Implementation Act, 1998*.

## Canada–Vietnam Income Tax Agreement

### 2 Citation of Part 1

This Part may be cited as the *Canada–Vietnam Income Tax Agreement Act, 1998*.

### 3 Definition of **Agreement**

In this Part, **Agreement** means the Agreement between the Government of Canada and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam set out in Schedule 1, as amended by the Protocol set out in that Schedule.

### 4 Agreement approved

The Agreement is approved and has the force of law in Canada during the period that the Agreement, by its terms, is in force.

### 5 Inconsistent laws – general rule

(1) Subject to subsection (2), in the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Part or the Agreement and the provisions of any other law, the provisions of this Part and the Agreement prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.

**Inconsistent laws – exception**

(2) In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Agreement and the provisions of the *Income Tax Conventions Interpretation Act*, the provisions of that Act prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.

### 6 Regulations

The Minister of National Revenue may make any regulations that are necessary for carrying out the Agreement or for giving effect to any of its provisions.

### [^]7 Publication of notice

The Minister of Finance shall cause a notice of the day on which the Agreement enters into force and of the day on which it ceases to have effect to be published in the *Canada Gazette* within sixty days after its entry into force or termination.

## Canada–Croatia Income Tax Agreement

### 8 Citation of Part 2

This Part may be cited as the *Canada–Croatia Income Tax Agreement Act, 1998*.

### 9 Definition of **Agreement**

In this Part, **Agreement** means the Agreement between the Government of Canada and the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out in Schedule 2, as amended by the Protocol set out in that Schedule.

### 10 Agreement approved

The Agreement is approved and has the force of law in Canada during the period that the Agreement, by its terms, is in force.

### 11 Inconsistent laws – general rule

(1) Subject to subsection (2), in the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Part or the Agreement and the provisions of any other law, the provisions of this Part and the Agreement prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.

**Inconsistent laws – exception**

(2) In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Agreement and the provisions of the *Income Tax Conventions Interpretation Act*, the provisions of that Act prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.

### 12 Regulations

The Minister of National Revenue may make any regulations that are necessary for carrying out the Agreement or for giving effect to any of its provisions.

### [^]13 Publication of notice

The Minister of Finance shall cause a notice of the day on which the Agreement enters into force and of the day on which it ceases to have effect to be published in the *Canada Gazette* within sixty days after its entry into force or termination.

## Canada–Chile Income Tax Convention

### 14 Citation of Part 3

This Part may be cited as the *Canada–Chile Income Tax Convention Act, 1998*.

### 15 Definition of **Convention**

In this Part, **Convention** means the Convention between the Government of Canada and the Government of the Republic of Chile set out in Schedule 3, as amended by the Protocol set out in that Schedule.

### 16 Convention approved

The Convention is approved and has the force of law in Canada during the period that the Convention, by its terms, is in force.

### 17 Inconsistent laws – general rule

(1) Subject to subsection (2), in the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Part or the Convention and the provisions of any other law, the provisions of this Part and the Convention prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.

**Inconsistent laws – exception**

(2) In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Convention and the provisions of the *Income Tax Conventions Interpretation Act*, the provisions of that Act prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.

### 18 Regulations

The Minister of National Revenue may make any regulations that are necessary for carrying out the Convention or for giving effect to any of its provisions.

### [^]19 Publication of notice

The Minister of Finance shall cause a notice of the day on which the Convention enters into force and of the day on which it ceases to have effect to be published in the *Canada Gazette* within sixty days after its entry into force or termination.


## SCHEDULE 1  Agreement Between the Government of Canada and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income

(Section 3)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 1998, c. 33, Sch. 1; 2002, c. 24, s. 10(E)

</details>


## SCHEDULE 2  Agreement Between the Government of Canada and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and on Capital

(Section 9)


## SCHEDULE 3  Convention Between the Government of Canada and the Government of the Republic of Chile for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and on Capital

(Section 15)


## RELATED PROVISIONS

### — 2002, c. 24, s. 10(2)

### 10

(2) Subsection (1) applies

- (a) in respect of tax withheld at the source on amounts paid or credited to non-residents after December 31, 1998; and

- (b) in respect of other taxes for taxation years beginning after December 31, 1998.
