---
title: "Kingsmere Park Act"
long_title: "An Act respecting Kingsmere Park"
chapter: "K-0.8"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Kingsmere Park Act

> An Act respecting Kingsmere Park


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Kingsmere Park Act*. 1951, c. 18, s. 1

### 2 Federal District Commission to administer Kingsmere Park

(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Federal District Commission shall administer Kingsmere Park in accordance with the desires and purposes expressed in the late Mr. King’s Will (the relevant portion of which is set out in the Schedule).

**Buildings, orchards, etc.**

(2) The Minister of Public Works and Government Services shall manage and control the buildings in Kingsmere Park and the yards, orchards and gardens appurtenant thereto in such manner as, in his opinion, will realize the desires and purposes expressed in the Will.

**G. in C. may lease**

(3) The Governor in Council may authorize the lease or licence of any of the buildings in Kingsmere Park, with the yards, orchards and gardens appurtenant thereto, for the better conservation thereof or for the purpose of realizing the desires and purposes expressed in the Will.

**Demolition of buildings**

(4) The Minister of Public Works and Government Services may, with the approval of the Governor in Council, demolish any building in Kingsmere Park if he considers it advisable for the purpose of realizing the desires and purposes expressed in the Will.

**G. in C. may describe limits**

(5) The Governor in Council may describe the limits of Kingsmere Park for the purposes of this Act, and, in case of doubt, the Governor in Council may determine the limits of the yards, orchards and gardens appurtenant to the buildings in Kingsmere Park.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S., 1952, c. 161, s. 2; 1996, c. 16, s. 60

</details>

### 3 Country home for Prime Minister

(1) The Governor in Council may, by order, set aside any part of Kingsmere Park to be used, as suggested in the Will, as a country home for the holder of the office of Prime Minister of Canada and may revoke any order that has been so made.

(2) Where any part of Kingsmere Park has been set aside by order made under subsection (1), the property so set aside shall, until the order is revoked, be deemed to be included in the properties described in the Schedule to the *Prime Minister’s Residence Act*.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 1951, c. 18, s. 3

</details>

### 4 G. in C. may give directions

Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, the Minister of Public Works and Government Services and the Federal District Commission shall comply with any general or special direction of the Governor in Council as to the manner in which Kingsmere Park shall be administered or as to the manner in which the desires or purposes expressed in the Will shall be realized.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S., 1952, c. 161, s. 4; 1996, c. 16, s. 60

</details>


## SCHEDULE  Portions of Mr. King’s Will

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 1951, c. 18, Sch

</details>
