---
title: "Nunavut Land Claims Agreement Act"
long_title: "An Act respecting an Agreement between the Inuit of the Nunavut Settlement Area and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada"
chapter: "N-28.7"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Nunavut Land Claims Agreement Act

> An Act respecting an Agreement between the Inuit of the Nunavut Settlement Area and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Nunavut Land Claims Agreement Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

In this Act,

**Agreement** means the land claims agreement between the Inuit of the Nunavut Settlement Area and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, signed on May 25, 1993, and tabled in the House of Commons for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development on May 26, 1993, and includes any amendments to that agreement made pursuant to the agreement; (**Accord**)

**Nunavut Settlement Area** means the area described in section 3.1.1 of the Agreement. (**région du Nunavut**)

## Her Majesty

### 3 Binding on Her Majesty

This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.

## Agreement

### 4 Agreement

(1) The Agreement is hereby ratified, given effect and declared valid.

**Idem**

(2) For greater certainty, the Agreement is binding on all persons and bodies that are not parties to the Agreement.

**Idem**

(3) For greater certainty, any person or body on which the Agreement confers a right, privilege, benefit or power or imposes a duty or liability may exercise the right, privilege, benefit or power, shall perform the duty or is subject to the liability, to the extent provided for by the Agreement.

### 5 No merger

The rights and benefits of the Inuit of the Nunavut Settlement Area under the Agreement do not merge in this Act or any other law.

### 6 Inconsistency with Agreement

(1) In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between the Agreement and any law, including this Act, the Agreement prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.

**Inconsistency with Act**

(2) In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between this Act and any other law, this Act prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.

### 7 Deposit

The Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development shall cause a certified copy of the Agreement and any amendments to the Agreement to be deposited in

- (a) the Library and Archives of Canada;

- (b) the library of the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development that is situated in the National Capital Region;

- (c) the legislative library of the territorial government that has jurisdiction over the Nunavut Settlement Area; and

- (d) such other places as the Minister considers advisable.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 1993, c. 29, s. 7; 2004, c. 11, s. 34

</details>

### 8 Orders and regulations

The Governor in Council may make such orders and regulations as are necessary for the purpose of carrying out any of the provisions of the Agreement.

## Appropriation

### 9 Appropriation

There shall be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund the sums required to meet the monetary obligations of Her Majesty under Articles 25 and 29 of the Agreement that arise after the coming into force of this Act.

## Nunavut Wildlife Management Board

### 10 Incorporation of Board

(1) The Nunavut Wildlife Management Board established by the Agreement is hereby constituted as a corporation and, as such, the Board has, for the purposes of carrying out its functions under the Agreement, the capacity, rights, powers and privileges of a natural person.

**Not an agent**

(2) The Nunavut Wildlife Management Board is not an agent of Her Majesty in right of Canada.

### 11 Head office

The head office of the Nunavut Wildlife Management Board shall be in Iqaluit or in such other place in the Nunavut Settlement Area as the Governor in Council may designate.

### 12 Remuneration of members

The remuneration of the members of the Nunavut Wildlife Management Board shall be set by the Governor in Council.

## Coming into Force

### [^]13 Coming into force

This Act shall come into force on December 31, 1993 or such earlier date as may be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.


## RELATED PROVISIONS

### — 2019, c. 29, par. 371(2)(b)


**Other references to Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development**

(2) Unless the context requires otherwise, every reference to the “Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development” is, with any grammatical adaptations, to be read as a reference to the “Department of Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs” in the following provisions:

- (b) paragraph 7(b) of the *Nunavut Land Claims Agreement Act*;

### — 2019, c. 29, par. 373(2)(b)


**Other references to Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development**

(2) Unless the context requires otherwise, every reference to the “Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development” is, with any grammatical adaptations, to be read as a reference to the “Minister of Crown-Indigenous Relations” in the following provisions:

- (b) the portion of section 7 of the *Nunavut Land Claims Agreement Act* before paragraph (a);
