---
title: "Queen Elizabeth II Canadian Research Fund Act"
long_title: "An Act respecting the establishment and administration of a fund to aid in research on the diseases of children"
chapter: "Q-1.8"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Queen Elizabeth II Canadian Research Fund Act

> An Act respecting the establishment and administration of a fund to aid in research on the diseases of children


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Queen Elizabeth II Canadian Research Fund Act*.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 1959, c. 33, s. 1

</details>

## Interpretation

### 1.1 Definition of **Council**

In this Act, **Council** means the Medical Research Council established by section 3 of the *Medical Research Council Act*.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 1995, c. 29, s. 69

</details>

## The Fund

### 2 Fund established

There is hereby established a fund, to be known as The Queen Elizabeth II Canadian Fund to Aid in Research on the Diseases of Children (hereinafter called the Fund), which shall consist of all money, securities and other property received by the Council for the purposes of the Fund and shall include all income derived from the Fund and all gifts, bequests, appropriations and other contributions made to the Fund.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S.C. 1970, c. Q-1, s. 2; 1995, c. 29, s. 70

</details>

### 3 Purposes of Fund

The purposes of the Fund are to assist individuals or organizations to undertake or carry on research into the diseases of children, and the causes, prevention and treatment of such diseases.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 1959, c. 33, s. 3

</details>

### 4 Appropriation to the Fund

There is hereby appropriated for the Fund, out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the sum of one million dollars.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 1959, c. 33, s. 4

</details>

### 5

[Repealed, 1995, c. 29, s. 71]

## Powers and Duties of the Council

### 6 Management and administration

The Council shall manage and administer the Fund in accordance with and subject to this Act.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S.C. 1970, c. Q-1, s. 6; 1995, c. 29, s. 73(E)

</details>

### 7 Payments

The Council may make such payments out of the Fund for the purposes of the Fund as it considers desirable.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S.C. 1970, c. Q-1, s. 7; 1995, c. 29, s. 73(E)

</details>

### 8 Investments

The Council may invest any moneys of the Fund in bonds or other securities of the Government of Canada and may sell any such bonds and securities.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S.C. 1970, c. Q-1, s. 8; 1995, c. 29, s. 73(E)

</details>

### 9 Advisory committees

The Council may appoint from among its members or otherwise such advisory or other committees as it considers necessary or advisable for the administration of this Act.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S.C. 1970, c. Q-1, s. 9; 1995, c. 29, s. 73(E)

</details>

### 10 Property

The Council may, for the purposes of this Act, acquire by purchase, lease, gift, bequest or otherwise any real or personal property and may own, hold, sell, manage or otherwise deal therewith in such manner as it may determine.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S.C. 1970, c. Q-1, s. 10; 1995, c. 29, s. 73(E)

</details>

### 11 By-laws

The Council may make by-laws for regulating its proceedings and generally for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S.C. 1970, c. Q-1, s. 11; 1995, c. 29, s. 73(E)

</details>

## General

### 12 Gifts to Her Majesty

A gift or bequest to the Fund or to the Council for the purposes of the Fund shall be deemed to be a gift to Her Majesty.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- R.S.C. 1970, c. Q-1, s. 12; 1995, c. 29, s. 73(E)

</details>

### 13 to 15

[Repealed, 1995, c. 29, s. 72]
