---
title: "Riding Name Change Act, 2014"
long_title: "An Act to change the names of certain electoral districts and to amend the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act"
chapter: "R-8.2"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Riding Name Change Act, 2014

> An Act to change the names of certain electoral districts and to amend the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Riding Name Change Act, 2014*.

## Electoral Districts in Quebec, Ontario, Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia

### Quebec

### 2 Name changed to “Thérèse-De Blainville”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 13 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Thérèse-De Blainville” for the name “Blainville”.

### 3 Name changed to “Pierre-Boucher — ​​Les Patriotes — ​​Verchères”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 14 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Pierre-Boucher — Les Patriotes — Verchères” for the name “Boucher — Les Patriotes — Verchères”.

### 4 Name changed to “Rimouski-Neigette — ​​Témiscouata — ​​Les Basques”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 18 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Rimouski-Neigette — Témiscouata — Les Basques” for the name “Centre-du-Bas-Saint-Laurent”.

### 5 Name changed to “Beauport — ​​Côte-de-Beaupré — ​​Île d’Orléans — ​​Charlevoix”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 20 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Beauport — Côte-de-Beaupré — Île d’Orléans — ​Charlevoix” for the name “Charlevoix — Montmorency”.

### 6 Name changed to “Chicoutimi — ​​Le Fjord”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 22 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Chicoutimi — Le Fjord” for the name “Chicoutimi”.

### 7 Name changed to “Dorval — ​​Lachine — ​​LaSalle”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 24 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Dorval — Lachine — LaSalle” for the name “Dorval — Lachine”.

### 8 Name changed to “LaSalle — ​​Émard — ​​Verdun”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 37 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “LaSalle — Émard — Verdun” for the name “LaSalle — Verdun”.

### 9 Name changed to “Longueuil — ​​Charles-LeMoyne”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 41 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Longueuil — Charles-LeMoyne” for the name “LeMoyne”.

### 10 Name changed to “Longueuil — ​​Saint-Hubert”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 43 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Longueuil — Saint-Hubert” for the name “Longueuil”.

### 11 Name changed to “Mount Royal”

In the English version of the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 52 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Mount Royal” for the name “Mont-Royal”.

### 12 Name changed to “Marc-Aurèle-Fortin”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 65 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Marc-Aurèle-Fortin” for the name “Sainte-Rose”.

### 13 Name changed to “Vaudreuil — ​​Soulanges”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 74 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Vaudreuil — Soulanges” for the name “Soulanges — Vaudreuil”.

### 14 Name changed to “Ville-Marie — ​​Le Sud-Ouest — ​​Île-des-Soeurs”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 77 of the part relating to Quebec is amended by substituting the name “Ville-Marie — Le Sud-Ouest — Île-des-Soeurs” for the name “Ville-Marie”.

### Ontario

### 15 Name changed to “Brantford — ​​Brant”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 13 of the part relating to Ontario is amended by substituting the name “Brantford — Brant” for the name “Brant”.

### 16 Name changed to “Lanark — ​​Frontenac — ​​Kingston”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 49 of the part relating to Ontario is amended by substituting the name “Lanark — Frontenac — Kingston” for the name “Lanark — Frontenac”.

### 17 Name changed to “Leeds — ​​Grenville — ​​Thousand Islands and Rideau Lakes”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 50 of the part relating to Ontario is amended by substituting the name “Leeds — Grenville — Thousand Islands and Rideau Lakes” for the name “Leeds — Grenville”.

### 18 Name changed to “Mississauga East — ​​Cooksville”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 59 of the part relating to Ontario is amended by substituting the name “Mississauga East — Cooksville” for the name “Mississauga — Cooksville”.

### 19 Name changed to “Northumberland — ​​Peterborough South”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 71 of the part relating to Ontario is amended by substituting the name “Northumberland — Peterborough South” for the name “Northumberland — Pine Ridge”.

### 20 Name changed to “Orléans”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 76 of the part relating to Ontario is amended by substituting the name “Orléans” for the name “Ottawa — Orléans”.

### 21 Name changed to “Peterborough — ​​Kawartha”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 84 of the part relating to Ontario is amended by substituting the name “Peterborough — Kawartha” for the name “Peterborough”.

### 22 Name changed to “Carleton”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 88 of the part relating to Ontario is amended by substituting the name “Carleton” for the name “Rideau — Carleton”.

### 23 Name changed to “Toronto — ​​St. Paul’s”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 90 of the part relating to Ontario is amended by substituting the name “Toronto — St. Paul’s” for the name “St. Paul’s”.

### 24 Name changed to “Humber River — ​​Black Creek”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 121 of the part relating to Ontario is amended by substituting the name “Humber River — Black Creek” for the name “York West”.

### Saskatchewan

### 25 Name changed to “Carlton Trail — ​​Eagle Creek”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 4 of the part relating to Saskatchewan is amended by substituting the name “Carlton Trail — Eagle Creek” for the name “Humboldt — Warman — Martensville — ​Rosetown”.

### Alberta

### 26 Name changed to “Grande Prairie — ​​Mackenzie”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 24 of the part relating to Alberta is amended by substituting the name “Grande Prairie — Mackenzie” for the name “Grande Prairie”.

### 27 Name changed to “Medicine Hat — ​​Cardston — ​​Warner”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 27 of the part relating to Alberta is amended by substituting the name “Medicine Hat — Cardston — Warner” for the name “Medicine Hat”.

### 28 Name changed to “Red Deer — ​​Lacombe”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 30 of the part relating to Alberta is amended by substituting the name “Red Deer — Lacombe” for the name “Red Deer — Wolf Creek”.

### 29 Name changed to “Sturgeon River — ​​Parkland”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 33 of the part relating to Alberta is amended by substituting the name “Sturgeon River — Parkland” for the name “Sturgeon River”.

### British Columbia

### 30 Name changed to “Esquimalt — ​​Saanich — ​​Sooke”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 26 of the part relating to British Columbia is amended by substituting the name “Esquimalt — Saanich — Sooke” for the name “Saanich — Esquimalt — Juan de Fuca”.

### 31 Name changed to “North Island — ​​Powell River”

In the representation order declared in force by proclamation of October 1, 2013 under the *Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act*, paragraph 37 of the part relating to British Columbia is amended by substituting the name “North Island — Powell River” for the name “Vancouver Island North — Comox — Powell River”.

## Amendment to the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act

### 32

[Amendment]
