---
title: "Sports Pool and Loto Canada Winding-Up Act"
long_title: "An Act respecting the winding-up of the Canadian Sports Pool Corporation and Loto Canada Inc."
chapter: "S-15.8"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# Sports Pool and Loto Canada Winding-Up Act

> An Act respecting the winding-up of the Canadian Sports Pool Corporation and Loto Canada Inc.


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *Sports Pool and Loto Canada Winding-Up Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

In this Act,

**Corporation** means the Canadian Sports Pool Corporation established by section 3 of the *Athletic Contests and Events Pools Act*; (**Société**)

**Her Majesty** means Her Majesty in right of Canada; (**Sa Majesté**)

**Minister** means the Minister of Health. (**ministre**)

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 1996, c. 8, s. 32

</details>

## Canadian Sports Pool Corporation

### 3 Corporation ceases to exist

The Corporation hereby ceases to exist.

### 4 Transfer of property and obligations of the Corporation

(1) All rights and property held by or in the name of or in trust for the Corporation and all obligations and liabilities of the Corporation are deemed to be rights, property, obligations and liabilities of Her Majesty.

**Closing out affairs**

(2) The Minister may do and perform all acts and things necessary for or incidental to closing out the affairs of the Corporation.

### 5 Repeal

The *Athletic Contests and Events Pools Act* is repealed.

## Loto Canada Inc.

### 6 Transfer of property and obligations of Loto Canada Inc.

(1) All rights and property held by or in the name of or in trust for Loto Canada Inc. and all obligations and liabilities of Loto Canada Inc. are deemed to be rights, property, obligations and liabilities of Her Majesty.

**Dissolution and closing out affairs**

(2) The Minister may do and perform all acts and things necessary for or incidental to procuring the dissolution and closing out of the affairs of Loto Canada Inc.

## Legal Proceedings

### 7 Legal proceedings

(1) Any action, suit or other legal proceeding in respect of an obligation or liability incurred by the Corporation or Loto Canada Inc., or incurred by the Minister in closing out the affairs of the Corporation or Loto Canada Inc., may be brought or taken against Her Majesty in any court that would have had jurisdiction if the action, suit or other legal proceeding had been brought or taken against the Corporation or Loto Canada Inc., as the case may be.

**Idem**

(2) Any action, suit or other legal proceeding pending in any court against the Corporation or Loto Canada Inc. may be continued against Her Majesty to the same extent as it could, but for the coming into force of this Act, have been continued against the Corporation or Loto Canada Inc., as the case may be.
