---
title: "St. Regis Islands Act"
long_title: "An Act to provide for special control by the Superintendent General of Indian Affairs of certain islands in the St. Lawrence river being part of the St. Regis Indian reservation"
chapter: "S-2.6"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# St. Regis Islands Act

> An Act to provide for special control by the Superintendent General of Indian Affairs of certain islands in the St. Lawrence river being part of the St. Regis Indian reservation


### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *St. Regis Islands Act*.

### 2 Superintendent to have power to deal with certain islands

Notwithstanding the provisions of the *Indian Act* to the contrary, the Superintendent General of Indian Affairs shall have full power to deal with the said Thompson or Macmaster Island, Lewis Island, Snyder Island, also Thomas or Hamilton Island and the Easterbrook farm, in the event of the leases under which they are held being declared by the courts to be null and void, and also any other island or islands belonging to the St. Regis band which are not held under location ticket or under any recognized interest by individual members of the band, in any way that may be deemed to be in the best interests of the band, and may for such purpose grant leases, licenses or other concessions without the necessity of obtaining a surrender to the said islands from the band.

### 3 Consent of Superintendent required for occupation, etc.

No Indian or other person shall without the consent of the Superintendent General, expressed in writing, use or occupy any part of the said islands or cut, carry away or remove from the said islands any of the trees, saplings, shrubs, underwood or other material whatsoever.

### 4 Penalty

Any one violating the provisions of the preceding section shall be liable on summary conviction to a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months nor less than one month, or to a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars with costs of prosecution and in default of immediate payment to a term of imprisonment not exceeding three months.
