---
title: "United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples Act"
long_title: "An Act respecting the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples"
chapter: "U-2.2"
language: "en"
type: "act"
---

# United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples Act

> An Act respecting the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples


## Short Title

### 1 Short title

This Act may be cited as the *United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples Act*.

## Interpretation

### 2 Definitions

(1) The following definitions apply in this Act.

**Declaration** means the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples that was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations as General Assembly Resolution 61/295 on September 13, 2007 and that is set out in the schedule. (**Déclaration**)

**Indigenous peoples** has the meaning assigned by the definition **aboriginal peoples of Canada** in subsection 35(2) of the *Constitution Act, 1982*. (**peuples autochtones**)

**Minister**, for the purposes of any provision of this Act, means the federal minister designated as the Minister for the purposes of that provision under section 3. (**ministre**)

(2) [Repealed, 2024, c. 30, s. 35]

**Clarification**

(3) Nothing in this Act is to be construed as delaying the application of the Declaration in Canadian law.

<details>
<summary>Historical Note</summary>

- 2021, c. 14, s. 2
- 2024, c. 30, s. 35

</details>

## Designation of Minister

### 3 Order designating Minister

The Governor in Council may, by order, designate any federal minister to be the Minister for the purposes of any provision of this Act.

## Purposes of Act

### 4 Purposes

The purposes of this Act are to

- (a) affirm the Declaration as a universal international human rights instrument with application in Canadian law; and

- (b) provide a framework for the Government of Canada’s implementation of the Declaration.

## Measures for Consistency of Laws and Achieving the Objectives of the Declaration

### 5 Consistency

The Government of Canada must, in consultation and cooperation with Indigenous peoples, take all measures necessary to ensure that the laws of Canada are consistent with the Declaration.

### 6 Action plan

(1) The Minister must, in consultation and cooperation with Indigenous peoples and with other federal ministers, prepare and implement an action plan to achieve the objectives of the Declaration.

**Content**

(2) The action plan must include

- (a) measures to
  - (i) address injustices, combat prejudice and eliminate all forms of violence, racism and discrimination, including systemic racism and discrimination, against Indigenous peoples and Indigenous elders, youth, children, women, men, persons with disabilities and gender-diverse persons and two-spirit persons, and
  - (ii) promote mutual respect and understanding as well as good relations, including through human rights education; and

- (b) measures related to monitoring, oversight, recourse or remedy or other accountability measures with respect to the implementation of the Declaration.

**Other elements**

(3) The action plan must also include measures related to monitoring the implementation of the plan and reviewing and amending the plan.

**Time limit**

(4) The preparation of the action plan must be completed as soon as practicable, but no later than two years after the day on which this section comes into force.

**Tabling in Parliament**

(5) The Minister must cause the action plan to be tabled in each House of Parliament as soon as practicable after it has been prepared.

**Action plan made public**

(6) After the action plan is tabled, the Minister must make it public.

## Report to Parliament

### 7 Annual report

(1) Within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Minister must, in consultation and cooperation with Indigenous peoples, prepare a report for the previous fiscal year on the measures taken under section 5 and the preparation and implementation of the action plan referred to in section 6.

**Tabling in Parliament**

(2) The Minister must cause the report to be tabled in each House of Parliament on any of the first 15 days on which that House is sitting after the report is completed.

**Referral to committee**

(3) The report stands permanently referred to the committee of each House of Parliament that is designated or established to review matters relating to Indigenous peoples.

**Report made public**

(4) After the report is tabled, the Minister must make it public.


## SCHEDULE  United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples

(Subsection 2(1))
